Title: Real-world and simulated thermal data from 960 residential multi-zone buildings in Central Europe

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.01994v2

Published Time: Thu, 04 Jun 2026 00:55:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# Real-world and simulated thermal data from 960 residential multi-zone buildings in Central Europe 

Fabian Raisch 1,2,* , Matthias Kersken 3, Markus Male 4, Benjamin Tischler 1

> 1

Technical University of Applied Sciences Rosenheim, Germany 

> 2

Technical University of Munich, Germany 

> 3

Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics IBP, Germany 

> 4

iDM Energiesysteme GmbH, Austria 

> *

Corresponding author: fabian.raisch@th-rosenheim.de 

# Abstract 

This paper presents the ThermBuild dataset, which comprises real-world measurements from two single-family homes and simulations of 958 TRNSYS building models. The buildings cover diverse combinations of air-source heat pump systems, numbers of thermal zones, occupancy profiles, building ages, thermal masses, sizes, orientations, window glazing types, European climates, and ventilation configurations. The dataset contains 15-minute-resolution operational data spanning 15 months for the real-world buildings and 3 years for the simulated buildings. Each building time series includes detailed measurements of heat pump operation, the heating distribution system, the domestic hot water system, zone-level indoor climate variables, and weather conditions. The ThermBuild dataset is designed for data-driven thermal modeling of buildings, thereby supporting the deployment of energy-efficient control, as well as fault detection and diagnosis. It is particularly suited for transfer learning, generalization modeling, benchmarking, simulation-to-reality transfer, and reproducible thermal modeling research. 

# 1 Background & Summary 

Building operations account for approximately 30% of global energy consumption and 26% of global greenhouse gas emissions 1. The building sector is therefore widely recognized as a key domain for reducing emissions to achieve climate targets. At the same time, building operations offer significant opportunities for emission reduction. Strategies such as automated fault detection and diagnosis (FDD) 2 and energy-efficient control approaches via model predictive control (MPC) 3 and reinforcement learning (RL) 4 have demonstrated the potential to significantly reduce building energy usage, related emissions, and operational costs. The deployment of these methods mostly requires accurate models of building thermal dynamics, including the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) system. One approach is the use of manually calibrated white-box models. However, their development requires expert knowledge, extensive engineering effort, and significant calibration time 3.Data-driven gray-box and black-box models provide a more scalable alternative because they can be generated directly from measurement data. Despite these opportunities, most buildings worldwide are not equipped with sensors, limiting the potential for advanced operational methods. Accordingly, when FDD or advanced control systems are deployed in practice, historical data for the specific target buildings are often unavailable, which delays model generation and algorithm deployment. Publicly available datasets can help address this challenge by enabling the pretraining of models and policies prior to deployment, as demonstrated in recent studies 5–11 . Once trained, these models can be adapted to unseen target buildings, reducing implementation time and improving early-stage performance, a process well known as transfer learning. Effective pretraining and robust model evaluation require datasets that span a wide range of building characteristics, HVAC configurations, occupant behaviors, and climatic conditions 5;8;12 . Access to datasets spanning diverse building types is, therefore, essential for transfer learning. Yet, most transfer learning studies in the building domain have evaluated their methods only on synthetic single-zone buildings. Publicly available datasets that combine simulated and real-world measurements of multi-zone buildings are therefore important for investigating the applicability of transfer learning methods under real operating conditions and for analyzing the simulation-to-reality transfer performance. In addition, publicly available datasets support reproducible research and benchmarking for transfer learning and other data-driven methods. 1

> arXiv:2606.01994v2 [cs.DB] 3 Jun 2026

For these reasons, we developed the ThermBuild dataset, which complements measurements from two real-world buildings with data from 958 simulated buildings. The real-world data originates from a 15-month measurement campaign conducted in the two TwinHouse reality labs in Holzkirchen, Germany, as used in 13;14 . The simulated data is generated from a validated TRNSYS simulation environment and provides 3 years of data for each building. The entire dataset represents multi-zone single-family houses located in Central Europe, constructed between 1980 and today. The buildings cover variations in weather, occupancy, building properties, and two heat pump configurations. Building properties are represented by different building ages, thermal masses, window glazing types, orientations, sizes, and numbers of zones. Occupancy affects internal heat gains, domestic hot water (DHW) draw-offs, and different air-changing rates via natural or mechanical ventilation. Both simulated and measured data are provided at 15-minute resolution and cover heating and cooling periods. Each time series includes room-level indoor climate measurements, weather conditions, and detailed operational data from the heat pump, the distribution system including thermal storage, and DHW. The dataset contains all variables required to model the thermal dynamics of both the building envelope and the heating/cooling system. These thermal models can subsequently be used for energy-efficient heat pump and zone-level control, as well as fault detection and diagnosis. The dataset is designed to promote research on multi-zone thermal modeling, transfer learning, model and policy generalization, and the simulation-to-reality transfer challenge. For these domains, the dataset supports benchmarking and reproducibility research. Beyond thermal modeling, the dataset can be used for a broad range of related applications, including electrical and thermal load forecasting, heat pump performance analysis, and thermal energy storage modeling. Several other building datasets exist, such as the Building Data Genome Project 15 and BuildingBench 16 , which provide large-scale electricity load data with associated metadata. These datasets focus primarily on the electrical side of the building and provide limited insight into thermal dynamics and HVAC behavior. Few datasets target the thermal side of residential buildings. The ecobee dataset 17 provides thermostat data from around 1,000 homes but lacks detailed HVAC measurements and multi-zone observations. The HOT dataset 18 scales to approximately 150,000 synthetic homes, yet does not represent real-world operation or detailed HVAC time series. The IDEAL household energy dataset 19 includes electricity, gas, and multi-zone sensing for 255 homes, offering richer heating-related context, although the time series have inconsistent measurements (only 32 out of the 255 homes include indoor temperatures and radiator flow temperatures), weather data is missing, and no heat pump systems are included. Open-source data generators provide an alternative approach for acquiring thermal building data 20;21 . For example, 22–24 offers a Modelica-based framework with a Python interface that enables the automated configuration and simulation of multiple buildings. However, the framework is limited to single-zone buildings and represents HVAC systems only in a simplified manner. 

# 2 Methods 

The ThermBuild dataset consists of two complementary parts. The first part, further described in Section 2.1, contains real-world measurement data collected from two residential buildings equipped with different air-source heat pump systems. The second part, further described in Section 2.2, contains simulated data generated using the TRNSYS 18 thermal-energetic building simulation software 25 . This component provides three years of time series data for 958 simulated buildings derived from variations of the real-world buildings. 

## 2.1 Real-world measurements 

The real-world measurements were conducted from 7 February 2025 to 30 April 2026 in two residential test buildings, referred to as the TwinHouses. The TwinHouses have previously been used in several scientific studies, including the validation of building energy simulation tools within the framework of IEA EBC Annex 58 13 and Annex 71 14 . Figure 1a shows the test site including the two TwinHouses and the institute’s weather station. The eastern house is called TwinHouse N2 (see Figure 1b), and the western TwinHouse O5. The buildings have been set up as two identical detached single-family houses at the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics IBP near Holzkirchen, south of Munich, Germany. Each building comprises a living space of 140 m 2, which corresponds to the German average for single-family homes. The TwinHouses were constructed around 1980 and have been retrofitted continuously to meet modern thermal requirements. Currently, the thermal status meets the requirements for a newly refurbished building according to the German building energy act (GEG 2020) 26 .Both houses are equipped with standard triple-pane insulating glazing and comprise seven common rooms. The basements were excluded from the investigation and maintained at a constant temperature of 18 °C by a separate heating system. The buildings experience only negligible external shading and share the same orientation, with the living room facing south. Figure 2 provides the TwinHouses’ floor plan and the setup of the mechanical ventilation system. The doors from the corridor to the sleeping room and to the bathroom are closed, as is the trapdoor between the ground 2(a) Aerial view from the south of the two TwinHouses (right) and the weather station (left) marked in yellow.  

> (b) West view of the N2 TwinHouse, including the outside unit of the heat pump.

Figure 1: Fraunhofer IBP TwinHouse test site near Holzkirchen (Germany) and installed heat pump system. closed (trap ) door     

> supply air point
> extract air point

dining 

corridor 

kitchen 

living 

sleeping 

bath 

child1  child2 

stairs 

doorway 

> sky -
> light

Figure 2: Floor plan of the ground floor (left) and the attic (right) of the TwinHouses, including the indication of open and closed doors as well as the supply and extract air positions for the mechanical ventilation system. 

floor and the attic. Figure 2 also shows the supply and extract air points of the mechanical ventilation system. Dining, sleeping, and the living room are supply air rooms, while the kitchen and bath have extract air points. The two child rooms in the attic have balanced supply and extract air. The principal distinction between the two TwinHouses lies in their building service equipment (BSE) configurations. TwinHouse O5 is equipped with a compact heat pump system featuring only minimal thermal storage capacity, which is primarily required for heat pump defrost operation. The system, therefore, supplies the building almost directly without thermal buffering in between. This configuration is referred to as BSE1 and is illustrated in Figure 3a. BSE1 does not include DHW production. TwinHouse N2 is equipped with a heat pump system comprising a wall-mounted indoor unit, an 825 L DHW storage, and a 500 L heating buffer. DHW production is additionally supported by a solar thermal collector with an area of approximately 6 m 2. DHW is drawn from the storage tank according to a predefined occupancy-based tapping profile. This configuration is referred to as 

BSE2 and is illustrated in Figure 3b. Together, BSE1 and BSE2 represent direct-coupled and storage-coupled heat pump systems, resulting in distinct thermal dynamics. Both TwinHouses use identical outdoor units for the air-source heat pumps, as shown for TwinHouse N2 in Figure 1b. In both TwinHouses, heating and cooling are distributed through underfloor heating systems, consisting of wet-screed underfloor heating on the ground floor and dry-screed underfloor heating in the attic. Occupancy is represented through internal heat gains and the definition of thermal comfort conditions. For internal gains, the TwinHouses include room-wise electrical power-controlled heat gain simulators with a 3(a) BSE1: iDM iPump compact unit in the O5 basement, includ-ing a 50 L heating buffer for the defrost cycles (integrated DHW buffer was not used).    

> (b) BSE2: iDM Alm consisting of wall-mounted indoor unit, DHW solar storage tank, including fresh water station and heating buffer (left to right) in the N2 basement.
> Figure 3: Building service equipment installation.

convective-radiative split of approximately 50%. For the occupancy profiles, we used the Occdem software 27 .Further information on software usage and occupancy will be provided in Section 2.2.2. The setpoint temperatures in both houses are set to 20 °C for all rooms with no night setback. The buildings are equipped with a mechanical ventilation system operating at a constant building-wide airflow rate of 155 m 3/h, as specified by the German building energy act for the calculation of mechanical ventilation systems 26 .The data acquisition systems consisted of the Beckhoff PLC of the TwinHouses with a 1-second sampling interval and the internal logging system of the iDM heat pumps. When measurements were available from both systems, the TwinHouses data were preferred because the instrumentation was calibrated prior to the experiment. Due to various technical issues, the raw data contains gaps in one or both systems. When data were available from the complementary iDM acquisition system, the missing values were replaced accordingly. If gaps persisted in both systems, a k-nearest neighbor (kNN) method with a neighborhood size of 5 was applied for imputation. The datasets before and after imputation are provided separately. Additional details on the kNN implementation are presented in Section 6. 

## 2.2 Simulation study 

The aim of the simulation study is to complement the TwinHouses measurement data with synthetic data. To this end, the TwinHouses were modeled in the TRNSYS simulation environment to establish two baseline models. Variations of these two baselines were generated across three domains: building properties, occupancy, and weather conditions. Each domain comprises multiple systematically varied sub-parameters, as illustrated in Figure 4. These parameters were selected because they most strongly influence the thermal dynamic behavior of buildings 28 . Sections 2.2.1 to 2.2.4 describe all parameters and variations in detail. As illustrated in Figure 4, the parameter variations were divided into systematic variations and random selection. Systematic variations were generated by defining a discrete set of values for each parameter and combining all values across variations. These variations comprise 2 ventilation types, 5 locations, 3 building sizes, 3 building ages, 3 thermal mass categories, 2 window glazing types, and the 2 BSE configurations derived from the baseline TwinHouses. Combining all systematic variations results in 1,080 unique building configurations. In addition, each configuration was assigned a set of randomly selected parameters, including temperature setpoints, occupancy profiles, building orientation, and the number of rooms. Based on these configurations, 1,080 TRNSYS models were automatically generated from the two baselines. Due to the automated model generation process, some simulation cases failed to meet the predefined convergence criteria and were therefore discarded. The convergence tolerance was set to 0.1%, defining the maximum allowed deviation between successive iteration steps for each 5-minute simulation timestep. Up to 400 iterations were permitted per timestep, and simulations were discarded if more than 300 timesteps (0.3%) failed to converge. The final dataset consequently contains 958 successful simulation runs with a total computation time of about 8.5 days. The simulated dataset was generated at a 15-minute temporal resolution to maintain consistency with the real-world measurements. To improve numerical stability, the TRNSYS simulations were performed with a 5-minute timestep and subsequently aggregated to 15-minute mean values. In the following, all parameter variations of the simulation study are explained. 4ventilation       

> natural, mechanical
> weather
> Holzkirchen, Bolzano, Paris,
> Warsaw, Copenhagen
> temperature setpoint & night setback
> random
> size
> 80%, 100%, 120%
> building age
> 1980, 2000, 2020
> thermal mass
> light, middle, heavy
> window glazing
> normal, solar protection
> number of rooms
> random: 5, 6, or 7
> orientation
> random
> occupancy profile
> random
> Building Simulation
> building service equipment
> BSE1, BSE2
> building properties occupancy heating system weather
> systematic variation
> random selection

Figure 4: Overview of the simulation study variations. A total of 1,080 systematic building configurations were generated, while parameters marked as random selection were assigned individually for each simulation case. 

2.2.1 Building properties 

The varied building properties include building size, building age, thermal mass, window glazing, number of rooms, and orientation. 

Size The size of the building influences the amount of energy required for heating. To capture the influence of building size, the floor area of the baseline models is scaled to 80% and 120%. The TwinHouses’ living space area (140 m 2) is defined as 100% because it represents the average German single-family house. The surface areas of the walls, roof, windows, and internal components (incl. underfloor heating) are adjusted accordingly. 

Building age The thermal performance of a building is strongly influenced by the thermal resistance of its envelope, which is closely related to the construction period and prevailing building standards at the time of construction 29 . To represent this variation in the simulation study, three different building ages are chosen. Besides the current energetic quality of the TwinHouses, year 2020, building ages according to the year 1980 and 2000 are chosen. Table 1 lists the U-values of the envelope’s main components according to the chosen ages. The 2020 U-values are defined by TwinHouses’ current constructions. For the other two construction ages, these properties are taken from the “announcement of the rules for data collection and data use in existing residential buildings” of the German federal ministries for economic affairs and energy, and the federal ministry of the interior, building, and community 30 . The U-values are provided in Table 1 for each building age. 

Thermal mass The thermal mass of a building influences its heat storage capacity and thermal inertia. The TwinHouses consist of external and ground floor internal walls of 1970 (800 kg/m 3) honeycomb bricks, concrete ceilings, and a gypsum board-covered roof truss and internal attic walls. In addition, four concrete pillars on the ground floor support the ceiling structure. Overall, the buildings correspond to a heavy-weight construction, 

Table 1: Envelope U-values and glazing g-values of the TwinHouses (2020) and the simulation study for different building ages. The envelope mean was calculated based on the area-weighted U-values of all envelope components. 

U-value [W/(m 2K)] g-value [-] of glazing age envelope mean external wall window (incl. frame) roof cellar ceiling standard solar protection 2020 0.27 0.19 1.00 0.22 0.29 0.50 0.20 2000 0.54 0.50 1.90 0.30 0.60 0.70 0.33 1980 0.94 0.80 3.00 0.70 0.80 0.64 0.44 5although the attic has a lower thermal mass. Since the TwinHouses serve as the basis for the simulation model, this configuration is defined as the “heavy” case. The simulation models were further modified to represent medium and light thermal mass variants. For the medium-weight case, the ground-floor internal walls were replaced with drywall constructions, and the four concrete pillars were removed. For the lightweight case, the ground-floor screed was replaced by a dry screed system, and the density of the perforated clay bricks was reduced to represent a construction with larger cavities. In addition, the density of the attic dry screed was reduced. 

Window glazing We vary the windows’ glazing from standard multi-pane products to solar protection glazing to mimic different levels of solar gain. This can similarly be interpreted as different window sizes. The amount of solar short-wave radiation energy penetrating through a glazing is described by the solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC) or the total energy transmission (g-value). Solar protection glazings have lower g-values than standard glazings while maintaining comparable U-values. It must be noted that the U-value of the glazings, which varies with building age, also influences the g-value. So the g-value changes with the usage of solar protection glazing and with building age. The g-values of the chosen glazings are included in Table 1. 

Number of rooms The TwinHouses feature seven common rooms, in addition to the unheated rooms, i.e., doorway, corridor, and staircase. To represent different internal room layouts in the dataset, variations with six and five common rooms are created by merging two and three ground-floor rooms in the simulation model. For a six-room house, the kitchen and living room are merged (see Figure 2). The authors are aware that merging the kitchen and dining room would be more typical, but the TwinHouses’ ground-floor plan doesn’t allow for this option. For a five-room layout, the kitchen, living, and dining are merged. 

Orientation The building orientation determines which rooms receive solar gains from incident solar radiation. In the simulation study, the building’s orientation is rotated. The rotation is randomly chosen for each case between 0 ° and 315 ° in 45 ° steps. An orientation of 0 ° corresponds to the as-built TwinHouses configuration, with the living room facing south; 90 °, 180 °, and 270 ° correspond to east-, north-, and west-facing living rooms, respectively. 

2.2.2 Occupancy 

This section describes the occupancy-related parameters, including occupancy profiles and the associated comfort conditions defined by temperature setpoints and ventilation rates. 

Occupancy profiles Representative occupant behavior is modeled using the Occdem software 27 , which generates stochastic occupancy profiles describing internal heat gains. Occdem separates these gains into occupant- and appliance-related loads and provides them at room-specific level. The probabilistic formulation ensures variability across both individual profiles and daily patterns throughout the year. As Occdem provides one-year profiles, they are repeated to match the three-year simulation period. The room-specific occupancy schedules are further used to determine the timing of natural ventilation through manual window operation, as described in the paragraph Ventilation . The Occdem profiles are generated at a 10-minute resolution. To match the dataset structure, they are resampled to 30-minute mean values and applied to the 15-minute simulation time step, resulting in occupancy-dependent changes every second time step. For each simulation case, a separate randomly selected occupancy profile is used. Each profile represents a household occupancy of 2 to 4 persons. 

Temperature setpoints and night setback Temperature setpoints are linked to occupancy to reflect occupant-dependent comfort preferences. For each building simulation, we sample a base setpoint temperature of 21 °C with a random offset of ±2.5 K (normal distribution), to represent common comfort ranges. For the sleeping room and children’s rooms when no children are generated by Occdem, this base setpoint temperature is reduced by 2 ±0.5 K to account for lower temperature requirements in infrequently used spaces. For randomly chosen 70% of the simulation cases, we consider an additional night setback of 2 ±0.5 K of the base setpoint temperature to mimic typical residential nighttime operation. The setback period starts at a randomly selected time between 21:30 and 24:00 and ends between 6:00 and 8:30. For bathroom setpoint temperatures, the base setpoint is increased by 1.5 ±1.5 K to reflect higher comfort requirements in the bathroom. The temperature setpoints and the potential night setback remain constant within each simulation case throughout the three-year period. 

Ventilation To capture the influence of air exchange on thermal dynamics, the simulated cases include either mechanical or natural ventilation. For mechanical ventilation, we randomly sample a volume flow rate between 31 and 155 m 3/h, based on 26 . Supply and extract air rooms are defined as shown in Figure 2. For natural 6ventilation, window opening times are generated randomly based on the occupancy (see paragraph Occupancy profiles ). When occupied, all rooms are ventilated twice a day, typically following the first and last period of occupancy. Building airtightness (uncontrolled leakage of air through the building envelope) is maintained constant across ventilation modes and building ages. For both approaches, all airflows between rooms and between indoor and outdoor environments are modeled using the TRNSYS-TRNflow plugin 31 , a multi-zone airflow model based on COMIS 32 .

2.2.3 Building service equipment 

The two variants, BSE1 and BSE2, as described in Section 2.1, were both implemented in the baseline simulation models. In both configurations, the heat pumps provide space heating and cooling, while BSE2 additionally includes DHW. To represent these operating modes, the simulation model includes three separate heat pump models: one for heating, one for cooling, and one for DHW production. This was done, as heating and cooling require different coefficient of performance (COP) values (describes the ratio between the thermal energy provided by the heat pump and the electrical energy consumption), and the hydraulic model is more stable when separated. Only one of the three heat pump models can operate at a time. The heat pump compressor frequency is PID-controlled to maintain the required outlet temperatures at fixed water flow rates. Electric consumption and thermal energy provided to the water circuits are calculated based on the compressor frequency, the heat pump outlet temperature, and the outdoor air temperature using polynomial functions. The polynomial functions were provided by the heat pump’s manufacturer and can not be shared due to proprietary restrictions. For the BSE2 setup, a DHW buffer is modeled and connected to both the DHW heat pump and the solar collector. The DHW tapping point, including the corresponding cold-water supply, is realized directly at one of the buffer connections. The water flow rate of the DHW tappings is defined by the individual occupancy profiles. 

2.2.4 Weather 

The weather strongly influences building thermal dynamics through ambient conditions. We consider five different locations in Central Europe for the simulation study to capture a broad range of operating conditions: Holzkirchen (Germany), Bolzano (Italy), Paris (France), Warsaw (Poland), and Copenhagen (Denmark). The locations were selected from cities in Central Europe with a cold-temperate climate according to 33 . In these regions, buildings require heating during winter and may require cooling during summer. For each location, we generate a three-year weather time series using Meteonorm 8 34 . We create three different typical meteorological years with random seeds and concatenate them to obtain a non-repeating three-year climate file for the TRNSYS simulation. 

# 3 Data Records 

The real-world and simulated data are provided separately while following a consistent column structure. The simulated dataset replicates the sensor features of the real-world buildings to ensure comparability and support joint analyses. Both datasets include measurements of heat pump operation, the heating distribution system, the DHW system, weather conditions, and zone-level indoor climate variables. Additional information on the included measurements is provided in Section 3.2. Section 3.1 further describes the metadata and the file naming convention. The published dataset is available at: https://fordatis.fraunhofer.de/handle/fordatis/486 35 and is organized according to the following folder structure: 

• Measurement data: 

– Raw measurement data (ThermBuild_measure_raw.zip): This file contains 15 month of measurement data recorded in the TwinHouses, including data gaps caused by temporary failures of both acquisition systems. Gaps are marked with NaN. 

– Imputed measurement data (ThermBuild_measure_imputed.zip): This file contains the same data as the previous file, with missing values imputed using the kNN method. 

– Additional temperature measurements (ThermBuild_measure_Temp_raw.zip): This file includes additional air temperature measurements at four heights (10 cm, 110 cm, 170 cm, and 10 cm below the ceiling) as well as the mean radiant temperature derived from a globe thermometer for all common rooms, which are not included in the simulated data. 

• Simulation study (ThermBuild_Sim.zip): This file includes the data of all 958 simulated buildings over the 3-year period. Each ZIP archive contains the time series data of the corresponding buildings in comma-separated value (CSV) format, with one CSV file provided per building. 7Table 2: Overview of the file naming convention. ∗: indicates the parameters of the real-world TwinHouses; ∗∗ : indicates the value of the realized average air change rate (ACR) of the building in [m 3/h]. 

Case name Parameter Case id id description Variations 

_BSE Building service equipment 1∗, 2 ∗ iDM iPump; iDM ALM 2_age Building age 1∗, 2, 3 2020; 2000; 1980 3_SoProt window glazing type 0∗, 1 standard glazing; solar protection glazing (according to building age) 2_mass Building thermal mass lig, mid, hea ∗ light; middle; heavy 3_wet Weather Hoki, Bolz, .., Real ∗

Holzkirchen (DE); Bolzano (I); Paris (F); Warsaw (Po); Copenhagen (DK); real 5_size Building size 080, 100 ∗, 120 80%; 100% (orig size); 120% 3_vent ∗∗ Ventilation (0, 1 ∗) Natural ventilation; mechanical ventilation (ACR is selected randomly) 2, random _setB Night setback (0 ∗, 1) no night setback, incl. night setback random _Use Occupancy profile (0, ..,1000) randomly generated using 27 random _rot Building orientation [0 ◦∗ , ..,315 ◦] defines south-ward orientation random _roo Number of rooms 3∗, 2, 1 7 rooms; 6 rooms; 5 rooms random 

## 3.1 File naming convention 

The dataset files follow a strict and descriptive naming convention that encodes all building parameters (metadata) directly in the file name. The file name consists of parameter identifiers (case name), specifying the parameter name, followed by its corresponding value (case id), as summarized in Table 2. This structured naming enables direct identification of the files without requiring additional metadata. Table 2 also shows the number of variations per parameter in the simulation study for consistency with Section 2.2. The two real-world datasets from the TwinHouses follow the same naming convention but use the suffix “_wetReal” to distinguish them from the synthetic weather files and to indicate real Holzkirchen climate. 

## 3.2 Included measurements 

Table 3 summarizes all measurements included in the dataset. For the thermal systems, the dataset provides flow and return temperatures, storage temperatures at multiple locations, thermal power measurements, and mass flow rates. Supply and return temperatures should only be interpreted when the corresponding mass flow rate is greater than zero, as stagnant water gradually approaches the surrounding air temperature. In addition, the dataset includes electrical power consumption of the heat pump and the corresponding compressor frequency. Auxiliary variables, such as timestamps and heat pump operating modes (heating, cooling, and DHW production), are also provided. At the room level, air temperature and relative humidity are measured at a height of 110 cm. Valve positions and window opening states are normalized between 0 and 1, corresponding to fully closed and fully open, respectively. Finally, the dataset includes the weather measurements. To ensure a consistent data structure across all buildings, all files share the same column layout. Accordingly, buildings with configuration BSE1 also contain columns related to DHW and solar thermal production, although these entries are set to NaN because the corresponding systems are not present. Similarly, for buildings with fewer than 7 rooms, measurements associated with non-existent rooms are represented by NaN values. Figure 5 illustrates the measurement concept for the buildings and shows the sensor positions from Table 3. For the BSE1 system, the grey-shaded area can be neglected. For the real-world BSE1 system, only one heat storage sensor is available due to the small tank volume, and the columns dist_Tstore_top , dist_Tstore_mid , and 

dist_Tstore_bott therefore contain identical values. The simulated BSE1 cases include all three storage sensor positions; however, meaningful stratification cannot be expected because of the limited storage volume. 8Table 3: Measurements included in the data files. Measurement names are grouped by system domain: ‘hp‘ (heat pump), ‘dhw‘ (domestic hot water system), ‘dist‘ (heating and cooling distribution system), ‘solar‘ (solar thermal collector), ‘room‘ (room-specific variables), and ‘wea‘ (weather data). Sensor ids refer to the sensor positions shown in Figure 5. The placeholder ‘roomID‘ represents the individual rooms (i.e., child room 1, child room 2, bedroom, bathroom, living room, dining room, or kitchen). 

Measurement name Unit Description Sensor id 

TIME h Simulation time step 

consecutive_days - n’th day of the dataset 

day_of_the_year - day of the year 

dhw_Tflow_store_tap °C DHW draw-off temperature 1

dhw_Tstore_bott °C Temperature of the DHW tank 2

dhw_Tstore_mid °C Temperature of the DHW tank 2

dhw_Tstore_top °C Temperature of the DHW tank 2

dhw_tap_Vset kg/h Setpoint DHW draw-off mass flow 1

dhw_thP_store_tap kW Thermal output of DHW tapping 1

dist_Tflow_store_ufh °C Common supply flow temperature of all heating surfaces 3

dist_Tflow_ufh_store °C Return temperature of the entire heating circuit 3

dist_Tstore_bott °C Temperature of the heating buffer 4

dist_Tstore_mid °C Temperature of the heating buffer 4

dist_Tstore_top °C Temperature of the heating buffer 4

dist_Vol kg/h Mass flow in the heating circuit between heating storage and underfloor heating 3

dist_thP kW Thermal output for room heating at the heating buffer outlet 3

hp_elP kW Electrical power consumption of the heat pump 5

hp_rps 1/s Heat pump compressor frequency 5

hp_Tflow_hp_store °C Flow temperature from the heat pump to storage 5

hp_Tflow_store_hp °C Flow temperature from the storage to the heat pump 5

hp_thP kW Thermal power output of the heat pump 5

hp_Vol kg/h Mass flow at the heat pump 5

mode_cool bool System in cooling mode 5

mode_dhw bool Heat pump in DHW production 5

mode_heat bool System in heating mode 5

roomID_ihs W Internal heat source of the room 6

roomID_rh % Relative room humidity 6

roomID_Tair °C Air temperature 6

roomID_Tret °C Return temperature from the room 3

roomID_Tset °C Room setpoint temperature 6

roomID_valve 0-1 Heating valve control value 3

roomID_win 0-1 Window opening in the room 6

solar_Tflow_coll_store °C Flow temperature from the collector to the DHW buffer 7

solar_Tflow_store_coll °C Flow temperature from the DHW buffer to the collector 7

solar_thP kW Thermal output of the solar thermal collector 7

wea_IbeamHor W/m 2 Direct solar radiation power on the horizontal plane wea 

wea_IdiffHor W/m 2 Diffuse solar radiation power on the horizontal plane wea 

wea_PercentrH % Relative outside air humidity wea 

wea_Tair_out °C Outside air temperature wea 

wea_vWind m/s Wind speed wea 

wea_Wdir ° Wind direction (north=0 °; east=90 °) wea 9V                                     

> V
> T
> T
> T
> GF AT
> T
> V
> T
> V
> T
> T
> T
> T
> TT/V
> T/V
> TT
> T
> T
> electric power
> meter
> Vvolume flow meter
> TTsupply and return temperature
> measurement
> return temperature and
> valve position
> internal heat source
> electric power
> air temperature
> T/V
> T
> T
> cold water
> T
> TV
> T
> T
> GF UFH distribution manifold
> ground floor (GF) / attic (AT)
> under floor Heating
> (UFH)
> hot water station
> BSE setup 2only
> © Fraunhofer IBP
> sensor position id 1
> 1
> 234
> 5
> 6
> 7

Figure 5: Schematic representation of the instrumentation concept for the heating case. 

# 4 Technical Validation 

We validated the dataset using several methods. Section 4.1 describes the sensor validation of the real-world data. For the simulated data, we follow the recommendations of 36 and applied two validation approaches: (1) comparison of the simulated data with real-world data, as presented in Section 4.2, and (2) validation using “order-of-magnitude” checks, as described in Section 4.3. 

## 4.1 Sensor validation for real-world data 

Before the measurement campaign started, the sensors followed a defined quality assurance procedure. All room air temperature sensors were placed together in a common radiation shield and compared to identify potential measurement deviations. The water temperature sensors were calibrated in the institute’s in-house calibration lab. The installed magneto-inductive mass flow sensors were validated using a calibrated scale by comparing the measured flow rate with the mass of water collected during controlled test runs. The flow meter validation was repeated approximately every 2 months because the hardware occasionally exhibited sensor drift. When drift was detected, the historical measurements were corrected using a linear calibration function, and all flow meters were replaced with manufacturer-calibrated ultrasonic flow meters. The ventilation airflow meters were sent to a certified calibration lab before the start of the measurements. In addition to calibrating and testing the sensors’ quality, two acquisition systems were used for HVAC measurement data, as explained in Section 2. The institute’s weather station is subject to a separate quality process. 

## 4.2 Comparison of simulation model to TwinHouses 

To validate the TRNSYS simulation model, the measurement data from both TwinHouses were compared with the simulation results. For this comparison, 11–25 March 2025 was chosen because this period included a relatively wide range of outdoor air temperatures and solar radiation intensities and was available at the time of the validation. As an example, Figure 6a shows the comparison of simulated (red) and measured (blue) room air temperatures and the cumulated activation time for the valve of the underfloor heating for the O5 building’s dining room. This validation was additionally performed for all remaining rooms and for the N2 building. Figure 6b shows the comparison of the simulated and measured heating energy consumption for the O5 building. After the 15-day validation period in March, the accumulated deviation in thermal energy was 8.5% for the O5 building and 6.9% for the N2 building. These deviations are within the limits proposed by ASHRAE Guideline 14 37 , which allows deviations of up to 10%. The remaining differences between the TRNSYS model and the measured data can be attributed to several factors: (i) model simplifications regarding thermal properties, control strategies, and boundary conditions, (ii) measurement uncertainties from sensor accuracy and 10 13.3 15.3 17.3 19.3 21.3 23.3 25.3 11.3      

> 18
> 20
> 22
> 24
> 26
> air temperature [°C]
> measurement
> simulation
> solar global radiation
> dining room
> 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> 800
> cumulated UFH-valve activation time [h]
> 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> 800
> 1000
> radiation intensity [W/m²] (a) Validation of the O5 dining room. 15.3 19.3 23.3 11.3
> 0
> 2000
> 4000
> 6000
> 8000
> cumulated energy [kWh]
> measurement
> simulation
> underfloor heating (b) Cumulated heating energy demand of the entire O5 building.

Figure 6: Comparison of simulation data to real-world TwinHouse data. 

positioning, (iii) differences between on-site micro-climatic conditions and the meteorological input data, and (iv) variations in actual infiltration rates compared to model assumptions. The deviations could potentially be reduced through parameter optimization. However, this step was intentionally omitted because the objective of the dataset is to represent a broader building stock rather than to create a highly tuned digital representation of the TwinHouses. In the N2 building, the solar-thermal production was also part of the validation, with a deviation of the cumulated energy gain of 0.4% at the end of the validation period. 

## 4.3 Plausibility checks for the simulation study 

The final validation step verifies that all parameters varied in the simulation study are correctly implemented in the TRNSYS model and produce the expected influence on the results. To this end, we perform a plausibility analysis by comparing all simulation cases using summary statistics of the three-year time series, as recommended by 36 . Table 4 summarizes all considered validation cases. We focus on the most relevant variables, including those identified as sensitive during the simulation setup, and consider all varied parameters from Figure 4. Each validation case analyzes the relationship between two variables represented on the x- and y-axes, while the varied parameter is indicated by the color code. For the two variables on the axes, a mean value of the entire building is considered. Later, we will also discuss a room-level validation. In Figure 7, all cases labeled as “dependency expected” are plotted (see Table 4). Figure 7a shows the first example, depicting the dependency between the parameter building age and the variables’ average heating and cooling power. It can be seen that the older 1980-buildings (blue) tend to have higher heating demand, while newer buildings (green) have lower heating demand but higher cooling demand. Such behavior is expected. Figure 7b shows the dependency of building age, average heating power, and corresponding electricity consumption. 

Table 4: Dependency analysis of building parameter impact based on mean variables of the entire building (x- and y-axes). 

x-axis y-axis color code dependency expected 

cooling demand heat demand age yes electricity demand heat demand age yes cooling demand heat demand weather yes cooling demand heat demand orientation no electricity demand heat demand BSE no electricity demand heat demand night setback no cooling demand heat demand window glazing yes electricity demand compressor frequency age yes cooling demand heat demand ventilation no supply temperature compressor frequency age no cooling demand heat demand number of rooms no electricity demand supply temperature age yes heat demand supply temperature age yes cooling demand heat demand size yes cooling demand heat demand thermal mass no 11 (a) Heating and cooling power vs. building age 

(b) Heating and electrical power vs. build-ing age 

(c) Heating and cooling power vs. weather location 

(d) Heating and cooling power vs. glazing type 

(e) Compressor frequency and electricity consumption vs. building age 

(f) Supply temperature and electricity con-sumption vs. building age 

(g) Supply temperature and heating power vs. building age 

(h) Heating and cooling power vs. building age 

Figure 7: Scatter plot analysis of simulation results on building level using two measurement variables and one varied parameter. 

12 Table 5: Dependency analysis of building parameter impact based on room-level mean and minimum variable values shown on the x- and y-axes. 

type x-axis y-axis color code dependency expected 

mean valve time air temperature size no mean valve time air temperature window glazing no min rel. humidity air temperature age no min rel. humidity air temperature ventilation yes min rel. humidity air temperature weather yes min rel. humidity air temperature thermal mass no min rel. humidity air temperature night setback yes Here, the higher heating demand of older buildings is also observable due to higher heating and electrical power consumption. The curve shows that the thermal-to-electrical ratio bends towards lower coefficients of performance (COP) for buildings with higher heat demand, as can be expected. However, it should be noted that the same heat pump model is used for all age classes (only powers are scaled up according to the heating design load), so there is no distinct COP clustering by age. Figure 7c shows the dependency of average heating and cooling power on the buildings’ location. Bolzano (dark-gray) has the highest cooling demand because it has the warmest, sunniest climate. Holzkirchen and Warsaw, characterized by the lowest outdoor air temperatures, show the highest heating demands, closely followed by Copenhagen. Paris, with the most average climate among the selected five locations, is not outstanding regarding heating or cooling. Figure 7d shows the dependency of average heating and cooling power on the type of glazing. It can be seen that cooling loads are reduced with solar protection glazing. No difference in heating demand is observed, as the reduction in solar gains during the darker winter months is relatively small. Figure 7e shows the dependency of the average electric power for space heating and the average heat pumps’ compressor frequency for the three building ages. First, it is clear that higher heating demands (older buildings) result in a more intensive compressor usage. Second, the difference in building ages results from scaling the heat pumps’ capacity to each building’s age and its corresponding design heat load. Thus, the 1980 heat pump (blue) delivers 300 W at a compressor frequency of 7 s −1, whereas the smaller 2020 unit (green) requires approximately 13 s −1 to provide the same thermal power. Figure 7f shows the average supply temperatures and electrical consumption ratios for different building ages. In addition to the increased electrical consumption observed in older buildings, the average supply temperatures also rise with building age, as higher heating demands require higher design supply temperatures according to the applied heating curves. Figure 7g exhibits a similar trend to Figure 7f, as the electrical power consumption is replaced by the heating power, which results in a different scaling of the x-axis. Figure 7h shows the average heating and cooling loads with the building size (80%, 100%, 120%) as the color-coded property. The average heating power depends on the size, since larger buildings have a larger envelope area. For the cooling power, the influence is less clear since not only the window areas, and so the solar gains, scale with the building size, but also the internal wall and ceilings with their thermal mass buffering the solar gains. Additionally, we perform plausibility checks at room level. The list of room-based checks is documented in Table 5. Cases with expected dependency are shown in Figure 8. In these three scatter plots, the minimum values for the room air temperature and the relative room air humidity are compared to a color-coded parameter. Figure 8a shows the living room’s minimum air temperature and minimum relative air humidity for mechanical and natural ventilation. It can be seen that natural ventilation results in lower minimum temperatures than mechanical ventilation. Mechanical ventilation continuously exchanges the rooms’ air at a relatively slow rate. Window openings, on the other hand, lead to brief but intense air exchange with the outside, resulting in very low room air temperatures for a short time. Lower minimum air temperatures correspond to lower minimum air humidities because both result from a higher air change rate during window opening. In Figure 8b, the color encodes the location while the x- and y-axes remain unchanged. The two ventilation system groups are still visible. Locations with colder outdoor temperatures in winter and accordingly drier climates show lower minimum room air temperatures and relative humidities. Figure 8c uses the night setback temperature as the color-coded parameter. The upper block again represents cases with mechanical ventilation and shows that buildings with night setback achieve lower minimum room temperatures because the setpoint temperature is reduced during nighttime operation. In the cases with natural ventilation, the temperature reduction is mainly driven by window opening. 13 (a) Minimal room air temperature and humidity vs. ventilation type 

(b) Minimal room air temperature and humidity vs. weather location 

(c) Minimal room air temperature and hu-midity vs. night setback 

Figure 8: Scatter plot analysis of simulation results for the living room. 

# 5 Data Availability 

The ThermBuild dataset is available at https://fordatis.fraunhofer.de/handle/fordatis/486 35 . The dataset contains real-world measurements from the two TwinHouses over 15 months, including raw measurements, gap-filled measurements generated using the kNN imputation method, and additional room temperature measurement data. Furthermore, the dataset provides 3-year time series data for 958 simulated buildings. For each building time series (real-world and simulated), the corresponding building metadata are encoded in the file name. All data files share a common column structure, and unavailable values are represented as NaN. 

# 6 Code Availability 

The TRNSYS models, including the associated input data files, are not made publicly available since they contain confidential source code regarding the heat pumps’ control. Without detailed information on how the TRNSYS result files are generated, the provided post-processing code cannot be used meaningfully, and other parties cannot repeat the building simulation validation themselves. The Python code for kNN-based imputation of data gaps in the measurements is shown in Listing 1: 

Listing 1: Script for kNN imputation of missing measurement data.  

> 1

import pandas as pd  

> 2

import os  

> 3

from sklearn . impute import KNNImputer  

> 45

path = " project_path "  

> 6

filepath = os . path . join ( path , " O5_DAMOtl_Messdaten_2026 -04 -26. csv " )  

> 7

dat_raw = pd . read_csv ( filepath )  

> 89

# identify NaN - only - columns  

> 10

all_nan_cols = dat_raw . columns [ dat_raw . isna () . all () ]. tolist ()  

> 11

valid_cols = dat_raw . columns [~ dat_raw . isna () . all () ]. tolist ()  

> 12 13

# impute  

> 14

imputer = KNNImputer ( n_neighbors =5)  

> 15

dat_imputed = imputer . fit_transform ( dat_raw [ valid_cols ])  

> 16 17

# result as D ataFrame  

> 18

dat_valid = pd . DataFrame ( dat_imputed , columns = valid_cols , index = dat_raw . index )  

> 19 20

# add NaN - only columns  

> 21

dat = pd . concat ([ dat_valid , dat_raw [ all_nan_cols ]] , axis =1)  

> 22 23

# original order  

> 24

dat = dat [ dat_raw . columns ]  

> 25 26

# save  

> 27

filepath = os . path . join ( path , " O5_DAMOtl_Messdaten_2026 -04 -26 - KNNn5 . csv " )  

> 28

dat . to_csv ( filepath , index = False , na_rep = " NaN " ) 

14 References 

[1] IEA. Tracking clean energy progress 2023. Technical report, International Energy Agency, 2023. URL 

https://www.iea.org/reports/tracking-clean-energy-progress-2023 .[2] Zhelun Chen, Zheng O’Neill, Jin Wen, Ojas Pradhan, Tao Yang, Xing Lu, Guanjing Lin, Shohei Miyata, Seungjae Lee, Chou Shen, Roberto Chiosa, Marco Savino Piscitelli, Alfonso Capozzoli, Franz Hengel, Alexander Kührer, Marco Pritoni, Wei Liu, John Clauß, Yimin Chen, and Terry Herr. A review of data-driven fault detection and diagnostics for building HVAC systems. Applied Energy , 339:121030, 2023. ISSN 0306-2619. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.121030. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/S030626192300394X .[3] Ján Drgoňa, Javier Arroyo, Iago Cupeiro Figueroa, David Blum, Krzysztof Arendt, Donghun Kim, En-ric Perarnau Ollé, Juraj Oravec, Michael Wetter, Draguna L. Vrabie, and Lieve Helsen. All you need to know about model predictive control for buildings. Annual Reviews in Control , 50:190–232, 2020. ISSN 13675788. doi: 10.1016/j.arcontrol.2020.09.001. [4] Zoltan Nagy, Gregor Henze, Sourav Dey, Javier Arroyo, Lieve Helsen, Xiangyu Zhang, Bingqing Chen, Kadir Amasyali, Kuldeep Kurte, Ahmed Zamzam, Helia Zandi, Ján Drgoňa, Matias Quintana, Steven McCullogh, June Young Park, Han Li, Tianzhen Hong, Silvio Brandi, Giuseppe Pinto, Alfonso Capozzoli, Draguna Vrabie, Mario Bergés, Kingsley Nweye, Thibault Marzullo, and Andrey Bernstein. Ten questions concerning reinforcement learning for building energy management. Building and Environment , 241:110435, 2023. ISSN 0360-1323. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2023.110435. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/S0360132323004626 .[5] Fabian Raisch, Thomas Krug, Christoph Goebel, and Benjamin Tischler. Gentl: A general transfer learning model for building thermal dynamics. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM International Conference on Future and Sustainable Energy Systems , E-Energy ’25, page 322–333, New York, NY, USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400711251. doi: 10.1145/3679240.3734589. URL 

https://doi.org/10.1145/3679240.3734589 .[6] Fabian Raisch, Max Langtry, Felix Koch, Ruchi Choudhary, Christoph Goebel, and Benjamin Tischler. Adapting to change: A comparison of continual and transfer learning for modeling building thermal dynamics under concept drifts. Energy and Buildings , 354:116868, 2026. ISSN 0378-7788. doi: https: //doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2025.116868. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S0378778825015981 .[7] Felix Koch, Fabian Raisch, and Benjamin Tischler. Thermal-gems: Generalized models for building thermal dynamics, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.16443 .[8] Han Li, Giuseppe Pinto, Marco Savino Piscitelli, Alfonso Capozzoli, and Tianzhen Hong. Building thermal dynamics modeling with deep transfer learning using a large residential smart thermostat dataset. 

Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence , 130:107701, 2024. [9] Hongwen Dou and Kun Zhang. Transfer learning for cross-building forecasting of building energy and indoor air temperature in model predictive control applications. Journal of Building Engineering , page 113341, 2025. [10] Jan Marco Ruiz de Vargas, Fabian Raisch, Zoltan Nagy, Pierre Pinson, and Christoph Goebel. Counter-dyna: Data-efficient rl-based hvac control using counterfactual building models, 2026. URL https: //arxiv.org/abs/2605.04555 .[11] Fabian Raisch, Timo Germann, J. Nathan Kutz, Christoph Goebel, and Benjamin Tischler. Transfer learning for neural parameter estimation applied to building rc models, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/ abs/2604.05904 .[12] Giuseppe Pinto, Riccardo Messina, Han Li, Tianzhen Hong, Marco Savino Piscitelli, and Alfonso Capozzoli. Sharing is caring: An extensive analysis of parameter-based transfer learning for the prediction of building thermal dynamics. Energy and Buildings , 276:112530, 2022. [13] Paul Strachan, Katalin Svehla, Ingo Heusler, and Matthias Kersken. Whole model empirical validation on a full-scale building, 2016. URL https://publica.fraunhofer.de/handle/publica/241872 .[14] Matthias Kersken, Gabriel Rojas, and Paul Strachan. Uncertainty of the predictions of different programs and modelling teams based on a detailed empirical validation dataset, 2025. URL https://publica. fraunhofer.de/handle/publica/479714 .15 [15] Clayton Miller, Anjukan Kathirgamanathan, Bianca Picchetti, Pandarasamy Arjunan, June Young Park, Zoltan Nagy, Paul Raftery, Brodie W Hobson, Zixiao Shi, and Forrest Meggers. The building data genome project 2, energy meter data from the ashrae great energy predictor iii competition. Scientific data , 7(1): 368, 2020. [16] Patrick Emami, Abhijeet Sahu, and Peter Graf. Buildingsbench: A large-scale dataset of 900k buildings and benchmark for short-term load forecasting. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36: 19823–19857, 2023. [17] Na Luo and Tianzhen Hong. Ecobee donate your data 1,000 homes in 2017. Technical report, Pacific Northwest National Lab.(PNNL), Richland, WA (United States), 2022. [18] Anaïs Berkes, Yoshua Bengio, David Rolnick, and Donna Vakalis. A hot dataset: 150,000 buildings for hvac operations transfer research. In Proceedings of the 12th ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient Buildings, Cities, and Transportation , pages 171–180, 2025. [19] Martin Pullinger, Jonathan Kilgour, Nigel Goddard, Niklas Berliner, Lynda Webb, Myroslava Dzikovska, Heather Lovell, Janek Mann, Charles Sutton, Janette Webb, et al. The ideal household energy dataset, electricity, gas, contextual sensor data and survey data for 255 uk homes. Scientific Data , 8(1):146, 2021. [20] Hongyuan Jia and Adrian Chong. eplusr: A framework for integrating building energy simulation and data-driven analytics. Energy and Buildings , Vol 237, 2021. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2021.110757. [21] Gaurav Chaudhary, Hicham Johra, Laurent Georges, and Bjørn Austbø. Synconn_build: A python based synthetic dataset generator for testing and validating control-oriented neural networks for building dynamics prediction. MethodsX , 11:102464, 2023. [22] Thomas Krug, Fabian Raisch, Dominik Aimer, Markus Wirnsberger, Ferdinand Sigg, Benjamin Schäfer, and Benjamin Tischler. Builda: A thermal building data generation framework for transfer learning. In 

2025 Annual Modeling and Simulation Conference (ANNSIM) , pages 1–13, 2025. [23] Thomas Krug, Fabian Raisch, Dominik Aimer, Markus Wirnsberger, Ferdinand Sigg, Felix Koch, Benjamin Schäfer, and Benjamin Tischler. A highly configurable framework for large-scale thermal building data generation to drive machine learning research, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00483 .[24] Felix Koch, Thomas Krug, Fabian Raisch, Benjamin Schäfer, and Benjamin Tischler. Buildyn: Excitation-driven data generation for building thermal dynamics modeling and control, 2026. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2605.29849 .[25] S. A. Klein, W. A. Beckman, J. W. Mitchell, J. A. Duffie, T. L. Freeman, J. C. Mitchell, J. E. Braun, B. L. Evans, J. P. Kummer, R. E. Urban, A. Fiksel, J. W. Thornton, N. J. Blair, J. A. Beckman, and S. J. Klein. 

TRNSYS 18: A Transient System Simulation Program . Solar Energy Laboratory, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA, 2017. URL http://sel.me.wisc.edu/trnsys .[26] German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. Gebäudeenergiegesetz (GEG) – build-ings energy act. Bundesgesetzblatt (BGBl.) I, 2020. URL https://geg-info.de/geg/2020.08.13. _bundesgesetzblatt_geg_2020_verkundung.pdf .[27] G. H. Flett and N. Kelly. Occdem - a program to generate statistically-based occupancy and occupant-driven electrical demand profiles. Computer software (OccDem_0(2.zip), March 2021. Creator: G. H. Flett; Contributor: N. Kelly. [28] Randall Thomas. Environmental Design . Taylor & Francis, 2006. ISBN 9780415363341. doi: https: //doi.org/10.4324/9780203013663. [29] Tobias Loga, Nikolaus Diefenbach, and Britta Stein. Typology approach for building stock energy assessment. Technical report, Institut Wohnen und Umwelt, Darmstadt, Germany, 2012. [30] German Federal Institute for Research on Building, Urban Affairs and Spatial Development (BBSR). Regeln zur Datenaufnahme und Datenverwendung im Wohngebäudebestand. Techni-cal report, 2023. URL https://www.bbsr-geg.bund.de/GEGPortal/DE/ErgaenzendendeRegelungen/ Bekanntmachungen/Bestandsberechnungen/Download/WGDatenaufnahmeGEG_DL.pdf . Supplementary Regulations to the Building Energy Act (GEG). [31] Viktor Dorer and Andreas Weber. Trnflow – a module for coupled multizone airflow and thermal simulation in trnsys. Technical report, EMPA, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Testing and Research, Dübendorf, Switzerland, 2009. Version 1.4. 16 [32] Helmut E. Feustel and Johannes Dieris. Comis – an international multizone air-flow and contaminant transport model. Technical Report LBL-28560, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA, 1992. [33] Jürgen Schnieders, Tim Delhey Eian, Marco Filippi, Javier Florez, Berthold Kaufmann, Stefanos Pallantzas, Monte Paulsen, Elena Reyes, Micheel Wassouf, and Shih-Chieh Yeh. Design and realisation of the passive house concept in different climate zones. Energy Efficiency , 13(8):1561–1604, 2020. [34] Meteotest. Meteonorm 8: Global meteorological database for solar energy and climatology . Meteotest, Bern, Switzerland, 2020. URL https://meteonorm.com . Computer software. [35] Matthias Kersken, Fabian Raisch, Markus Male, and Benjamin Tischler. ThermBuild: Real-world and simulated thermal data from 960 residential multi-zone buildings in Central Europe, 2026. URL https: //fordatis.fraunhofer.de/handle/fordatis/486 . http://dx.doi.org/10.24406/fordatis/445. [36] Zhiqiang John Zhai, Tianzhen Hong, Matthaios Santamouris, and Jian-Lei Niu. Validation practices for simulation-based research. Energy and Buildings , 352:116853, 2026. ISSN 0378-7788. doi: https: //doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2025.116853. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S037877882501583X .[37] American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers. ASHRAE Guideline 14-2014: Measurement of Energy, Demand, and Water Savings . ASHRAE, Atlanta, Georgia, 2014. URL 

https://www.ashrae.org . Includes guidelines for measurement and verification of energy, demand, and water savings in buildings projects. 17