Title: 2606.12065v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.12065v1

Published Time: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 01:03:57 GMT

Number of Pages: 86

Markdown Content:
1

# Automating Geometry -Intensive Compliance Checking in BIM: Graph -

# Based Semantic Reasoning Framework 

Zixuan Xiao 1, Pei Troh Koh 1, Jun Ma 1,* , Jack C.P. Cheng 2 

> 1

Department of Urban Planning and Design, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong  

> 2

Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 

Hong Kong  

> *

Corresponding author (Email address: junma@hku.hk )2

Abstract 

Automating compliance check for geometry -intensive regulations remains a significant technical bottleneck 

in Building Information Modeling (BIM), primarily due to the semantic disparity between high -level 

regulatory logic and structured IFC data. Existing methods, often reliant on static rule templates, struggle to 

traverse multi -hop reasoning chains or resolve latent spatial dependencies acr oss multiple building entities. 

To address these challenges, a Spatial -Geometric Reasoning System for Building Inform ation Modeling 

(SGR -BIM) is proposed as an integrative graph -driven reasoning framework . SGR -BIM dynamically 

constructs a cross -modal knowledge graph that aligns user intent, regulatory semantics, and BIM geometry, 

enabling interpretable reasoning without rigid hard -coding. Validated on 679 expert -verified queries from fire 

safety codes, the framework achieves 84.3% accuracy, representing an 8.6% improvement over enhanced -tool 

single -agent baselines . This research provides a graph -based semantic reasoning p aradigm, enhancing the 

transparency and flexibility of automated geometr ic compliance check workflows in the Architecture, 

Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry. 

Keywords: Automated Compliance Check ; Building Information Modeling (BIM) ; Spatial Reasoning ; Large 

Language Model (LLM) ;

1. Introduction 

Automated Compliance Check (ACC) has become a pivotal research topic in the Architecture, 

Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry, aiming to streamline regulatory enforcement and reduce 

manual errors in design review. However, a persistent challenge i n current ACC workflows is the automated 

verification of geometry -intensive regulations , rules that rely on complex spatial relationships rather than 

simple attribute matching. In this study, geometry -intensive regulations specifically refer to regulatory 

provisions that are evaluated through semantic geometric properties (e.g., parametric dimensions) and 

topological relationships explicitly or implicitly defined within the IFC schema. While IFC supports various 

representations such as B -rep or CSG, this re search focuses on semantic -level geometric reasoning rather than 

mesh -to -mesh Boolean operations. 3

Fire safety codes represent a quintessential example of such computational complexity. While critical for 

safeguarding public safety [1,2] , these codes are inherently geometry -dependent, prescribing strict 

requirements on compartmentation, means of escape, and evacuation capacity. Unlike simple property checks, 

verifying these provisions requires interpreting intricate spatial parameters such as compartment area, travel 

distance, stair and corridor widths, clearances, and door opening dimensions. Ensuring compliance with these 

geometry -intensive rules is therefore not only a safety imperative but also a significant technical benchmark 

for adv ancing automated design review. 

The increasing adoption of Building Information Modeling (BIM) provides new opportunities for 

automating the compliance checking of fire safety regulations. IFC -based BIM models capture rich geometric 

and semantic information that can, in principle, suppor t the automatic evaluation of code provisions. Prior 

studies have explored various methods including rule -based systems, logic and constraint checking, model 

querying, and ontology -driven reasoning to translate regulatory requirements into machine -executab le 

representations [3,4] . These approaches have shown promising potential for checking relatively simple 

attribute -level or condition -level rules, such as material types or element properties [5,6] .

However, geometry compliance check remains an unresolved and particularly challenging problem, 

despite the increasing availability of IFC -based BIM models and growing interest in automating regulatory 

evaluation. A major difficulty arises from the multi -ho p and context -dependent nature of geometric rule chains 

embedded in regulatory codes. Many geometry -related provisions cannot be validated through a single 

geometric attribute . I nstead, they require sequential interpretation of multiple interlinked clauses across 

different sections of the regulation. For instance, verifying the number and width of exit doors represents a 

typical multi -hop rule chain challenge. This task is not a standalone geometric check , which requires a 

sequential reasoning path by determining the building’s Use Classification to identify the correct Occupancy 

Factor, which is then combined with room sizes to compute the Occupant Capacity. 

Existing rule -based or constraint -check approaches have advanced the field through semi -automated rule 

translation using visual programming [7] , comparative frameworks for Linked Data and IFC -based validation 4

[8] , and the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automated regulatory text interpretation [9,10] .

However, these approaches, which primarily rely on static rule templates or hard -coded logic, are not well -

suited for traversing such dynamic, interlinked logical dependencies across different regulatory sections. 

Specifically, existing template -based systems fail in such scenarios because they typically presuppose a static 

mapping between a rule and a target attribute (e.g., Door.Width > Constant). They lack the computational 

flexibility to dynamically execute a pr e-requisite reasoning chain , such as que rying occupancy tables and 

calculating area sums , before performing the geometric check. Consequently, a user would be required to 

manually pre -calculate and input the 'Occupant Capacity' into the BIM model, which defeats the purpose of 

full automation and introduces significant potential for human error. 

In addition to the inherent multi -step nature of geometric rules, a more fundamental challenge arises from 

the semantic gap among user queries, code provisions, and BIM geometry. In this study, w e define the 

semantic gap as the disparity between the high -level linguistic logic of regulations and the low -level data 

structures of IFC. Consequently, cross -modal alignment is the process of mapping these heterogeneous 

sources , user intent, regulatory text, and BIM data , into a unified logical reasoning space. These three 

information sources operate at different levels of abstraction and are rarely aligned in practice. This gap is 

manifested in underspecified user queries . For example, a query like 'Does this stair comply with the code?' 

requires the system to first infer from the regulatory text which specific geometric attributes (e.g., width) must 

be validated. Furthermore, many regulatory requirements , which combine narrative natural language with 

structured and semi -structured tabular specifications that enumerate dimensional thresholds, classification 

criteria, and exception conditions , involve latent elements linkage. Verifying an exit door’s width often 

necessitates retrieving information from the IFCBuilding (for Use Classification) and IFCSpace (for room 

area), rather than the door entity alone. Without a mechanism for precise and transparent cross -modal 

alignment across these modalities, automated methods cannot reliably support comprehensive and explainable 

geometry -based fire safety evaluations. 5

To address these cross -modal alignment challenges, this study proposes SGR -BIM (Spatial -Geometric 

Reasoning System for BIM), a graph -based semantic reasoning framework designed to automate the 

verification of geometry -intensive regulations. Unlike traditional pipelines that rely on static rule templates, 

SGR -BIM introduces a dynamic cross -modal knowledge graph , which unifies diverse information sources ,

including user intent, regulatory semantics, and IFC -based geometric data , within a coherent topological 

representation. By embedding spatial relationships directly into the graph structure, the framework enables 

the system to autonomously interpret multi -hop rule chains, resolve latent dependencies across building 

entities, and extract context -specific spatial attributes required for high -precision evaluation. On the other 

hand, SGR -BIM orchestrates this process through coordinated semantic reasoning modul es that decompose 

complex spatial tasks into transparent sub -tasks . Every decision generates an interpretable reasoning trace, 

allowing practitioners to validate the underlying geometric assumptions. 

This study is built upon the hypothesis that the coordination of specialized agents through a dynamic graph 

structure can effectively bridge the semantic gap by aligning heterogeneous information sources into a unified 

reasoning path, thereby resolving mul ti -hop spatial dependencies that remain insurmountable for static rule -

template systems. To systematically evaluate this hypothesis through the SGR -BIM framework , we formulate 

three Research Questions (RQs): (RQ1) How effectively can the framework align us er queries, regulatory 

codes, and BIM models , to provide effective and accurate automated geometry -intensive compliance checks ?

(RQ2) to what extent can the graph -driven mechanism provide users with complete and relevant answers ? and 

(RQ3) How does the generated reasoning path contribute to the interpretability of the results? 

Building upon the above research questions, the objective of this study is to develop and validate a 

computational framework that can (1) accurately align heterogeneous information sources across user queries, 

regulatory codes , and BIM models, (2) effectively resolve multi -hop and context -dependent geometric rule 

chains, and (3) provide interpretable reasoning processes that support transparent compliance checking. These 

objectives are directly mapped with four evaluation metrics: Accuracy, Coherence, Relevance, and 

Explainability. Accuracy serves as the primary quantitative measure to validate the fulfilment of RQ1, 6

reflecting the system’s factual alignment ability with the three information modalities. The quality of the 

response in RQ2 is captured by Relevance and Coherence, which together evaluate whether the aligned context 

is both substantively related to the user's intent and logically complete. Finally, the Ex plainability metric is 

mapped to RQ3 to assess the transparency of the logic chain, ensuring the reasoning paths meet the 

interpretability standards required for professional regulatory workflows. 

The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows: 

(1) SGR -BIM, an integrative framework for automated spatial constraint verification, is proposed to 

overcome the limitations of hard -coded logic in handling context -dependent geometric rules. 

(2) A graph -driven cross -modal alignment mechanism is introduced to dynamically bridge the semantic gap 

between unstructured regulatory texts, user queries, and structured IFC geometry, enabling unified multi -

hop reasoning. 

(3) An explainable and interactive compliance -checking pipeline is designed, integrating a backend checking 

system with an interactive user interface to support transparent, query -driven spatial evaluation. 

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 reviews related work in automated 

compliance checking and the application of Large Language Models and agents in the AEC industry. Section 

3 delineates the methodology of the proposed SGR -BIM f ramework, detailing the graph -driven cross -modal 

structured semantic alignment and the interactive interface. Section 4 documents the experimental setup and 

provides a comprehensive evaluation of quantitative performance, followed by a diagnostic error ana lysis and 

a multifaceted discussion on knowledge graph characteristics and reasoning quality. Section 5 acknowledges 

the research limitations and identifies specific directions for future work. Finally, Section 6 summarizes the 

core contributions and concl udes the study. 

2. Related Work 

This section situates the proposed SGR -BIM framework within the broader landscape of digital 

construction and artificial intelligence. Section 2.1 reviews the evolution of Automated Compliance Checking 

(ACC) systems. Section 2.2 explores the recent advance ments in Large Language Models (LLMs) and multi -7

agent reasoning frameworks, focusing on their emerging applications within the Architecture, Engineering, 

and Construction (AEC) industry. 

2.1 . Automated Compliance Check for Building Regulations 

Automated compliance check has been a prominent research topic in the AEC domain for more than 

two decades, aiming to reduce the cost, inconsistency, and inefficiency associated with manual building code 

review. Existing approaches span a methodological spectrum from rule - and logic -based formalisms, to 

Building Information Modeling (BIM) query and model -driven validation workflows, and more recently to 

Natural Language Processing (NLP) - or knowledge -based regulation interpretation. Together, these research 

directions illustrate the evolution of automated compliance check from manually authored, rigid rule 

representations toward more flexible, data -driven, and semi -intelligent pipelines. This trajectory is 

exemplified by the integration of knowledge graphs for semantic rule modeling [11] and has been extensively 

documented in meta -analyses and systematic reviews of the field’s methodological shifts [12,13] .

Rule - and logic -based approaches represent the earliest and most extensively studied category of 

automated compliance check methods [14,15] . These systems formalize regulatory requirements into 

machine -executable expressions through manually crafted rule templates, procedural scripts, or declarative 

logic rules. To improve semantic expressiveness and reuse, ontology -driven methods encode regu latory 

knowledge using Web Ontology Language (OWL) / Resource Description Framework (RDF) and evaluate 

constraints through Semantic Web Rule Language (SWRL) or SPARQL Protocol and RDF Query Language 

(SPARQL) inference [16,17] . Although such approaches offer high interpretability and explicit control over 

rule semantics, they require substantial expert effort to author and maintain rule sets, and their expressiveness 

is constrained by formal logic constructs. Due to the open -wo rld assumption of OWL/SWRL and the limited 

support for sequencing dependencies, these systems struggle to represent multi -hop and context -dependent 

rule chains commonly found in fire safety codes. 

BIM query - and model -driven approaches shift the focus toward direct validation of IFC -based BIM 

models [18,19] . These methods leverage model querying, schema -based validation (e.g., JSON/XML Schema, 8

Information Delivery Specification (IDS) ), and geometric or spatial computation to assess compliance. Visual 

rule authoring languages such as Visual Code Checking Language (VCCL) further lower the barrier for 

composing rule constraints, while hybrid query –geometry systems have demonstrated automated evaluation 

of egress paths, fire compartment boundaries, thermal performance, visibility, and accessibility conditions 

[20,21] . Such approaches align well with BIM -centric workflows and can handle geometric or spatial 

conditions that exceed the capabilities of pure logic systems. However, their effectiveness depends heavily on 

data completeness and consistent semantic modeling wi thin BIM. More critically, they are typically limited 

to single -condition or single -object evaluation and lack mechanisms to handle latent linkage between multiple 

IFC entities, which is essential for geometry compliance check of fire safety rules. 

NLP -assisted and hybrid code interpretation approaches attempt to address the bottleneck of manual 

rule authoring by extracting structured constraints directly from regulatory documents [22,23] . Early methods 

apply clause segmentation, dependency parsing, and semantic role labeling to identify regulated objects, 

parameter thresholds, and conditional logic [24,25] . More recent work incorporates semantic networks or 

knowledge graphs to bridge regulatory text with BIM semantics [26,27] . These studies show promise in 

reducing manual modeling effort, yet current NLP pipelines remain insufficient for handling the multi -layered 

semantics of fire safety codes, including tabular specifications, cross -referenced clauses, and context -

dependent rule logic [28] . Moreover, existing approaches do not provide mechanisms to systematically map 

textual rule semantics to IFC geometry or user intent, limiting their applicability to geometry compliance 

check. 

Overall, automated compliance check research has progressed from explicit, expert -authored rule 

engines with high interpretability but limited scalability to BIM query - and geometry -oriented methods with 

stronger engineering applicability and more recently to NLP - and LLM -assisted pipelines that aim to partially 

automate rule interpretation. Despite these advancements, existing approaches remain primarily or iented 

toward general or attribute -level regulatory conditions and fall short in addressing the multi -hop, context -

dependent, and geometry -intensive requirements characteristic of fire safety rules. These gaps highlight the 9

need for new frameworks capable of integrating semantic interpretation, geometric reasoning, and structured 

alignment into a cohesive and practicable workflow. 

2.2 . Large Language Models and Agent -based Reasoning: From General Frameworks to AEC 

Applications 

LLMs have demonstrated remarkable capability in few -shot natural language interpretation and 

stepwise reasoning [29] , driven by advances in prompting strategies that elicit multi -step cognitive processes. 

Chain -of -Thought (CoT) prompting enables LLMs to decompose complex tasks into intermediate reasoning 

steps, yielding strong performance in domains such as legal analys is, mathematical derivation, and structured 

decision -making [30] . Building on this idea, more expressive reasoning paradigms , such as Tree -of -Thought 

(ToT), which explores multiple reasoning branches simultaneously, and emerging graph -of -thought 

frameworks, which structure reasoning as graphs or executable programs , have further expanded LLMs’ 

ability to navigate decision spaces, evaluate alternatives, and refine intermediate results [31,32] . Additional 

techniques such as self -consistency sampling [33] , self -verification [34] , and ReAct -style reasoning [35] ,

which combines reasoning traces with external tool use [36,37] , also demonstrate improved robustness for 

multi -step inference tasks [38,39] .

On the other hand, r ecent research has developed multi -agent LLM frameworks such as CAMEL [40] ,

AutoGen [41] , MetaGPT [42] , and other coordination -oriented architectures [43,44] . These systems assign 

specialized roles to different LLM agents, enabling task decomposition, iterative refinement, and collaborative 

problem -solving [45] . Multi -agent designs have proven effective for complex workflows requiring planning, 

feedback loops, and tool integration. Nevertheless, current multi -agent frameworks are generic in nature ,

which lack explicit grounding in domain -specific data structures and do not provide mechanisms to align agent 

reasoning with regulatory semantics or BIM geometry. 

Emerging work in the AEC domain has begun to explore the use of large language models and agent -

based techniques for tasks such as regulatory text summarization [46] , BIM -oriented question answering 

[47,48] , design assistance [49,50] , construction planning support [51,52] , and automated interpretation of 

technical documents [53,54] . These studies collectively illustrate the growing potential of LLM -driven 10 

intelligence to augment AEC workflows by improving information retrieval [55,56] , supporting decision -

making, and enhancing regulatory understanding [57] . However, existing applications typically focus on 

extracting or summarizing regulatory information, assisting with conversational BIM interfaces, or generating 

high -level design insights, but they do not provide mechanisms for multi -hop rule interpretati on, multi -entity 

geometric dependency resolution, or cross -modal alignment in geometry compliance check applications . As 

a result, current LLM or agent -based approaches in AEC cannot support the structured, geometry -intensive 

reasoning processes required f or fire -safety -related geometry compliance check. These gaps underscore the 

need for a domain -specific, alignment -driven method capable of integrating semantic interpretation, geometric 

reasoning, and interactive evaluation within a unified compliance workflow. 

3. Method 

This section delineates the underlying architecture and operational logic of SGR -BIM. Section 3.1 

provides a high -level framework overview and a formal definition of the problem. Section 3.2 details the core 

mechanism of graph -driven cross -modal structured semantic alignment. Section 3.3 describes the 

implementation of the explainable and interactive interface designed for BIM -centered compliance check .

3.1. Framework Overview and Formal Problem Definition 

The SGR -BIM framework is designed as a graph -driven multi -agent system that integrates user intent 

interpretation, geometry -related regulatory provision extraction, and BIM model interrogation into a unified 

workflow for automated geometry compliance check. As illustrated in Fig. 1, the system receives three forms 

of cross -modal input: user queries expressed in natural language, fire safety code provisions containing both 

narrative clauses and tabular specifications, and IFC -based BIM models that encode geome tric and semantic 

building information. These inputs enter the system through the user interface, which also enables optional 

element selection and interactive exploration during the compliance process. 11       

> Fig. 1The overview of SGR -BIM framework ,integrating cross -modal data sources, multi -agent coordination, and
> graph -driven semantic alignment.

Within the framework, a set of specialized toolkits performs the initial interpretation and retrieval 

operations needed to access and structure these heterogeneous data sources. The query analysis toolkit offers 

functions for semantic parsing and project information extraction that support the agent’s interpretation of 

user intent. The rule analysis toolkit exposes interfaces for locating, segmenting, and retrieving text or tabular 

entries from the fire safety code corpus. Similarly, the IFC analysis toolki t provides access to geometric 

attributes, spatial relationships, and entity metadata stored in the BIM model. These toolkits operate as 

retrieval utilities that supply the raw information required for downstream reasoning. 

At the core of SGR -BIM lies the semantic graph that progressively aligns the user’s intent, regulatory 

semantics, and BIM -derived geometric information. Through iterative expansion guided by the multi -agent 

workflow, the system constructs a unified embedding that integrates query nodes, rule nodes, and model nodes, 

linked through typed relations encoding reference dependencies, regulatory constraints, and spatial or 

topological relationships. This graph serves as the shared embedding space in which intermed iate findings are 12 

accumulated, latent dependencies are resolved, and multi -hop reasoning paths required for geometry -intensive 

fire safety checks are constructed. 

Once the semantic graph has been sufficiently populated, SGR -BIM performs graph -based reasoning 

to identify a final reasoning path that connects the user’s query to the relevant regulatory requirements and 

model evidence. Based on this path, the system generates a result together with an optional explanation that 

prese nts the intermediate steps, supporting evidence, and derived geometric attributes. This enables 

transparent evaluation of geometry -related fire safety requirements and supports interactive, pr actitioner -

oriented design review. 

Building upon this high -level overview, we now formalize the core inputs and representations used in 

the framework. We denote a natural -language user query as 

𝑞 ∈ 𝑄 (1) 

where 𝒬 represents the space of admissible geometry -compliance questions. The regulatory corpus is 

represented as 

𝑅 = {𝑟 !, 𝑟 ", … , 𝑟 #} (2) 

where each 𝑟 $ is a narrative clause or tabular specification extracted from the fire safety code, potentially 

containing dimensional thresholds, applicability criteria, exceptions, and cross -references. The IFC BIM 

model is represented by the set 

𝐼 = {𝑖 !, 𝑖 ", … , 𝑖 %} (3)

with each 𝑖 & corresponding to an IFC entity (e.g., IfcDoor, IfcSpace, IfcStair), accompanied by geometric and 

semantic attributes retrieved through an IFC parsing toolset. 

To support cross -modal alignment between these information sources, the SGR -BIM framework 

constructs a cross -modal semantic graph 

𝐺 = (𝑉 , 𝐸 ) (4)

in which nodes and edges encode semantic reference, regulatory constraints, and Ifc model spatial topology. 

The node set is defined as 13 

𝑉 = 𝑉 ' ∪ 𝑉 ( ∪ 𝑉 ) (5)

where a query node 𝑣 * ∈ 𝑉 ' represents the structured interpretation of the user query. A rule node 𝑣 + ∈ 𝑉 (

represents a regulatory clause retrieved from 𝑅 . A model node 𝑣 # ∈ 𝑉 ) represents an IFC entity from 𝐼 

together with its geometric and semantic attributes. This representation embeds geometric properties directly 

within model nodes, ensuring that the graph remains compact while still supporting geometry -intensive 

reasoning. 

Relations among nodes are represented using typed edges. To unify relation types, we define a relation 

space 

Λ = Λ+,- ∪ Λ+,. ∪ Λ/010 (6)

where Λ+,- contains semantic reference relations linking query and model nodes (e.g., refers_to, targets) . Λ+,. 

contains regulatory constraint relations linking model nodes to rule nodes (e.g., constrained_by) . Λ/010 

contains spatial and topological relations among model nodes (e.g., located_in, accesses, adjacent_to, 

connected_to) . These relations are not defined as a closed or predefined set . Instead, they are dynamically 

inferred during the reasoning process based on available BIM data and contextual information. The edge set 

is therefore expressed as 

𝐸 = {(𝑢 , 𝑣 , 𝜏 ) | 𝑢 , 𝑣 ∈ 𝑉 , 𝜏 ∈ Λ} (7)

The SGR -BIM framework employs five LLM -enabled agents whose roles differ in responsibility and 

granularity. The User Intent Analysis Agent produces the structured interpretation encoded in the query node ,

𝑓 2%/,%/ : 𝑄 ⟶ (𝐽 *, 𝑣 *) (8)

where the natural -language query is transformed into a JSON -based intent specification 𝐽 * that identifies the 

referenced building elements, relevant geometric attributes, and the implied regulatory scope. The agent then 

instantiates the query node 𝑣 * and initializes the graph .

𝐺 4 = ({𝑣 *}, ∅) (9)

Rule nodes and model nodes are added through subsequent iterations of the workflow. In the workflow, 

information retrieval is performed by two dedicated agents. The Rule Query Agent applies 14 

𝑓 +56, : Ω%,7/ ⟶ 𝑅 ∗ (10 )

where Ω%,7/ is the instruction generated by the Analysis Agent , and 𝑅 ∗ ⊆ 𝑅 denotes regulatory clauses 

relevant to the current information needs. The IFC Query Agent retrieves BIM entities through 

𝑓 2-9 : Ω%,7/ ⟶ 𝐼 ∗ (11 )

where 𝐼 ∗ ⊆ 𝐼 denotes IFC entities and their geometric attributes required for the evaluation. Importantly, 

neither agent directly updates the graph . Instead, they supply the raw rule or model information needed for 

graph expansion. Graph construction and update are exclusively handled by the Analysis Agent, which 

orchestrates the workflow via 

𝑓 :%:6;<2< : (𝐺 , 𝑞 , 𝐻 , 𝑇 ) ⟶ (𝑆 , Ω%,7/ , 𝑈 ) (12 )

where 𝐻 denotes the interaction history and 𝑇 denotes the evolving task specification. The output 

𝑆 ∈ {𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 , 𝑅𝑢𝑙𝑒 , 𝑀𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙 } (13 )

indicates whether the graph is complete ( 𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 ), requires additional regulatory information ( 𝑅𝑢𝑙𝑒 ), or requires 

additional IFC model information ( 𝑀𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙 ). The instruction 

Ω%,7/ ∈ Ω (14 )

describes what information the next retrieval agent must obtain. After retrieval, the Analysis Agent executes 

the graph -update operations encoded in 

𝑈 = (𝑉 %,= , 𝐸 %,= ) (15 )

where each 

𝑉 %,= = {(𝑖𝑑 , 𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒 , 𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑟𝑠 )} (16 )

represents a newly added or updated node with its attributes, and 

𝐸 %,= = {(𝑢 , 𝑣 , 𝜏 ) | 𝑢 , 𝑣 ∈ 𝑉 , 𝜏 ∈ Λ} (17 )

epresents newly constructed edges. These operations directly extend the semantic graph and serve as the basis 

for the next iteration. 

When 𝑆 = 𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 , the Response Generation Agent applies 15 

𝑓 +,<1 : (𝐺 ∗, 𝐻 ) ⟶ 𝑦 (18 )

producing the final compliance determination supported by a final interpretable reasoning trace within the 

resulting semantic graph 𝐺 ∗.

Beginning with a single query node, the SGR -BIM framework repeatedly retrieves regulatory content 

and BIM data, updates the semantic graph, and aligns geometric, semantic, and contextual information until 

sufficient evidence is available to evaluate the query. This graph -driven formulation provides a unified 

mech anism for linking user intent, regulatory semantics, and BIM geometry, forming the foundation for the 

structured semantic alignment and reasoning procedures described in the following sections. 

3.2. Graph -driven Cross -modal Structured Semantic Alignment 

The core of the SGR -BIM framework is a graph -driven alignment mechanism that integrates user 

intent, regulatory semantics, and BIM -derived geometric information into a unified representation suitable for 

automated geometry compliance check . While user queries, code provisions, and IFC entities originate from 

heterogeneous modalities and operate at different levels of abstraction, geometry -related fire safety rules 

require these disparate sources to be jointly interpreted. The proposed seman tic graph provides a shared, 

structured representation that enables multi -agent coordination, supports progressive fusion of cross -modal 

information, and facilitates explainable reasoning over geometry -intensive regulatory requirements. This 

section introduces the graph -driven cross -modal alignment mechanism supported by a multi -agent iterative 

coordination workflow. Fig 1 and Fig 2 jointly illustrate the conceptual architecture and the operational 

process behind this mechanism. 16 

Fig. 2 Cross -modal alignment pipeline of SGR -BIM , including information embedding, graph construction, and 

graph -based reasoning. 

To bridge the semantic gaps across modalities, SGR -BIM embeds information from user intent, 

regulatory clauses, and BIM model entities into a unified semantic graph. Beginning with the natural -language 

query 𝑞 , the User Intent Analysis Agent applies 

Q𝐽 *, 𝑣 * R = 𝑓 2%/,%/ (𝑞 ) (19 )

where 𝐽 * denotes the structured intent specification and 𝑣 * ∈ 𝑉 ' is the corresponding query node that 

initializes the graph 𝐺 4 = ({𝑣 *}, ∅). Subsequent information is progressively integrated through a

combination of retrieval operations and analysis -driven graph updates. Regulatory fragments returned by the 

Rule Query Agent, 

𝑅 ∗ = 𝑓 +56, (Ω%,7/ ) (20 )

and IFC -derived geometric content returned by the IFC Query Agent, 

𝐼 ∗ = 𝑓 2-9 (Ω%,7/ ) (21 )17 

are not inserted into the graph directly. Instead, the Analysis Agent transforms these raw retrieval results into 

new rule nodes 𝑣 +, model nodes 𝑣 #, and typed edges that reflect semantic or spatial relationships defined in 

the regulatory text or encoded in the BIM model. Through this information embedding process, SGR -BIM 

generates a structured, modality -aware graph representation in which each node encapsulates content relevant 

to a specific modality, and each edge indicates a reference, constraint, or topological relationship between 

entities. 

The expansion and refinement of this semantic graph is driven by an iterative coordination loop 

orchestrated by the Analysis Agent. At each iteration, the Analysis Agent examines the current graph state 𝐺 ,

together with the user’s query 𝑞 , the accumulated interaction history 𝐻 and task specification 𝑇 , to determine 

whether the information contained in the graph is sufficient for evaluating the compliance question. Formally, 

the agent applies 

(𝑆 , Ω%,7/ , 𝑈 ) = 𝑓 :%:6;<2< (𝐺 , 𝑞 , 𝐻 , 𝑇 ) (22 )

where 𝑆 ∈ {𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 , 𝑅𝑢𝑙𝑒 , 𝑀𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙 } indicates whether the alignment is complete ( 𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 ), requires additional 

regulatory information ( 𝑅𝑢𝑙𝑒 ), or requires additional geometric information from the BIM model ( 𝑀𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙 ). 

This iterative process continues until all required cross -modal dependencies , including rule thresholds, 

exception conditions, spatial relationships, or latent entity linkages , have been embedded into the graph. Once 

the alignment converges ( 𝑆 = 𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 ), the resulting semantic graph 𝐺 ∗ encodes a complete cross -modal 

representation of the compliance problem. The Response Generation Agent then performs graph -based 

reasoning 

𝑦 = 𝑓 +,<1 (𝐺 ∗, 𝐻 ) (23 )

identifying a reasoning path 

𝜋 = {𝑣 * ⟶ 𝑣 #! ⟶ ⋯ ⟶ 𝑣 +" } (24 )

that links the user query to the relevant BIM entities and regulatory clauses. Because each step of this chain 

is explicitly represented as a node or edge within the graph, the reasoning process is inherently transparent. 

The system can therefore provide i nterpretable explanations, reveal intermediate assumptions, and support 18 

interactive exploration of compliance outcomes , capabilities that are difficult to achieve with rule -based 

compliance check approaches. 

Algorithm 1 formalizes this workflow, detailing the interaction among agents, the retrieval of cross -

modal information, and the recursive integration of newly acquired content. Together with Fig. 2, the 

algorithm highlights how SGR -BIM incrementally transforms heterogeneous inputs into a tightly aligned 

semantic structure capable of supporting graph -based geometry compliance reasoning. Through this graph -

driven cross -modal alignment mechanism, SGR -BIM offers a robust and explainable foundation for 

automated geometry compliance check of fire safety codes. 

Algorithm 1 . Graph -driven multi -agent workflow for cross -modal semantic alignment 

Input: User query 𝑞 , regulatory corpus 𝑅 , IFC model 𝐼 

Output: Aligned semantic graph 𝐺 ∗, compliance result 𝑦 

1: Q𝐽 *, 𝑣 *R ⟵ 𝑓 2%/,%/ (𝑞 )

2: Initialize 𝐺 4 ⟵ ({𝑣 *}, ∅)

3: Initialize history 𝐻 and task specification 𝑇 

4: while 𝑆 ≠ 𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝 do 

5: (𝑆 , Ω%,7/ , 𝑈 ) ⟵ 𝑓 :%:6;<2< (𝐺 , 𝑞 , 𝐻 , 𝑇 )

6: if 𝑆 = 𝑅𝑢𝑙𝑒 then 

7: 𝑅 ∗ ⟵ 𝑓 +56, (Ω%,7/ )

8: Update 𝐻 and 𝑇 with 𝑅 ∗

9: if 𝑆 = 𝑀𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙 then 

10 : 𝐼 ∗ ⟵ 𝑓 2-9 (Ω%,7/ )

11 : Update 𝐻 and 𝑇 with 𝐼 ∗

12 : Apply update 𝑈 to 𝐺 

13 : end while 

14 : 𝑦 ⟵ 𝑓 +,<1 (𝐺 ∗, 𝐻 )

15 : return (𝐺 ∗, 𝑦 )19 

3.3. Explainable and Interactive Geometry Compliance Check Interface 

Automated compliance check is most effective when the results are not only correct but also 

transparent and easily interpretable by practitioners. In the context of fire safety regulations , where geometric 

requirements often involve multi -step reasoning, latent dependencies among building entities, and conditional 

logic embedded in the code , explainability and interactivity are essential for enabling designers, engineers, 

and reviewers to understand and verify the basis of compliance results. Traditional automated compliance 

systems typically operate as closed pipelines: users provide design models and receive pass –fail outcomes, 

with limited visibility into intermediate reasoning or the specific geometric and regulatory evidence used to 

support those decisions. Such opacity can reduc e trust, hinder adoption in practice, and limit the system’s 

usefulness during iterative design refinement. 

To address these limitations, SGR -BIM incorporates an explainable and interactive user interface that 

exposes the underlying reasoning process of the graph -driven multi -agent framework. The interface enables 

users to visualize BIM geometry, inspect IFC entities, explore the cross -modal semant ic graph, and interact 

with results at the level of individual rules, geometric attributes, and reasoning steps. By coupling the 

alignment mechanism described in Section 3.2 with an interactive visualization layer, SGR -BIM provides a 

transparent compliance environment in which users can both query and interrogate the system’s conclusions. 20   

> Fig. 3Interactive interface of SGR -BIM .

Fig 3 (a) presents an overview of the SGR -BIM interface. The system displays the user’s BIM model 

in an interactive 3D viewport that supports entity selection, highlighting, and geometric inspection. Geometry 

compliance check is presented as one of the system’s core functions and is accessed through a dedicated chat 

window that allows users to enter natural -language queries. The interface includes a checkbox for enabling 

explanation mode, allowing practitioners to request fully interpretable reasoning paths when needed. This 

blended design , which comb in es direct model interaction with conversational querying , enables flexible 

workflows in which users can either inspect geometry visually or request automated evaluation of specific 

code -related questions. 

To support entity -level understanding, the interface allows users to click on components within the 

BIM model , such as doors, rooms, or stair elements , to access detailed information about their geometric and 

semantic attributes. As shown in Fig 3 (b) , selected elements are highlighted in the viewport, and the 

corresponding attribute panel displays relevant IFC data, including attributes , dimensions, and spatial 21 

relationships. This feature supports interactive exploration of model content and facilitates contextual 

understanding during compliance check , especially in cases where geometric dependencies span multiple 

building entities. 

Beyond passive inspection, the interface supports referential queries that ground user intent in the 

selected BIM entities. As illustrated in Fig 3 (c) , after selecting an object in the model, the user may pose a 

query such as “Does the width of this door meet the exit width requirement specified by the code?”. The 

system automatically interprets the referring expression “this door”, aligns it with the s elected IFC entity, and 

invokes the graph -driven reasoning pipeline to evaluate the relevant geometric rul e chain. This capability 

demonstrates the integration between model interaction and semantic alignment: user selections directly 

influence the construction of the semantic graph and guide the agents in retrieving the appropriate regulatory 

and geometric in formation. 

Finally, when explanation mode is enabled, SGR -BIM provides an interpretable reasoning trace 

alongside the compliance check outcome. Fig 3 (d) shows an example in which the system not only returns a 

result but also presents a natural -language explanation detailing the geometric attributes considered, the 

specific regulatory clauses applied, and the intermediate deductions made during reasoning. Th is explanation 

is derived from the reasoning path extracted from the aligned semantic graph and therefore reflect the actual 

sequence of rule dependencies and IFC evidence used in evaluation. By exposing this chain of reasoning, the 

interface supports transparency, facilit ates trust, and enables practitioners to validate or challenge the 

underlying assumptions during design review. 

Through these explainable and interactive interface features, SGR -BIM enhances the practical 

usability of the underlying multi -agent alignment framework. By enabling users to explore BIM geometry, 

inspect regulatory evidence, and interrogate reasoning outcomes, the interface bridges the gap between 

automated reasoning and d ecision -making, providing a supportive environment for reliable, interpretable, and 

user -driven geometry compliance check of fire safety codes. 22 

4. Experiment 

This section describes the experimental validation of SGR -BIM using a diverse set of fire safety regulatory 

queries. Section 4.1 outlines the construction of the benchmark dataset and the definition of evaluation metrics, 

while Section 4.2 details the experimental setup and baseline configurati ons. The quantitative performance 

results and a diagnostic error analysis are presented in Section 4.3 and Section 4.4, respectively. The section 

concludes with Section 4.5, which provides a discussion of the framewor k’s reasoning characteristics and 

practical applicability. 

4.1. Question Dataset and Evaluation Metrics 

To systematically evaluate the robustness of SGR -BIM in handling complex, geometry -intensive 

regulatory constraints, we constructed a specialized benchmark dataset consisting of 679 questions derived 

from practical BIM -based design review scenarios. Fire s afety regulations were selected as the representative 

validation domain for this study, as they impose some of the most stringent and intricate spatial requirements 

in building design ( e.g., multi -hop travel distances, topology -dependent separations ), ther eby serving as an 

ideal rigorous testbed for geometric reasoning capabilities. The dataset covers two major phases of practical 

workflows , design -stage inquiries and check -stage evaluations , and organizes questions into four semantically 

coherent categories that reflect generic information needs in spatial compliance reasoning, instantiated here 

through specific fire safety provisions. 

The dataset is constructed based on five IFC models covering diverse building types, including two 

multi -storey residential apartment buildings, one dormitory, one commercial office building, and one 

industrial factory. These models were selected to ensure diversity in building use classification, spatial 

configuration, and scale, thereby reflecting a broad range of realistic design scenarios encountered in practice. 

The initial models were obtained from publicly available sources and subsequently refined b y a research team 

with BIM expertise, consisting of three members with over one year of BIM experience, including one 

practitioner with extensive industry experience, to ensure consistency, completeness, and suitability for 

compliance checking tasks. 23 

The question set was developed through a semi -structured process combining domain expertise and 

LLM -assisted expansion. First, domain experts analyzed each IFC model to identify representative 

compliance scenarios and manually formulated a set of seed ques tions targeting key regulatory and geometric 

reasoning challenges. These seed questions were then expanded using large language models to improve 

coverage and diversity. Finally, all generated questions were manually reviewed and validated by the expert 

te am to ensure correctness, relevance, and alignment with realistic compliance workflows. 

The ground truth answers were entirely produced by domain experts through detailed analysis of both 

the regulatory provisions and the corresponding BIM models. This process ensures that each answer is 

consistent with regulatory requirements and accurately reflects the underlying geometric and semantic 

conditions of the model, thereby providing a reliable benchmark for evaluating automated compliance 

checking performance. 

Design -stage questions focus on understanding regulatory requirements and deriving design targets 

prior to model development. They include:  

> l

Rule questions, which request specific geometry -related provisions from the fire safety code (e.g., 

maximum compartment areas).  

> l

Rule requirement questions, which query the required geometric properties for a specific building element 

(e.g., the clear width required for a particular door). 

Check -stage questions evaluate as -built or as -modeled BIM geometry against regulatory constraints. 

They include:  

> l

Model questions, which retrieve geometric or spatial information from the IFC model (e.g., floor level, 

dimensions, or adjacency).  

> l

Check questions, which assess whether an IFC element satisfies the applicable geometry -dependent fire 

safety requirements. 24 

Table 1 Overview of the Question Dataset Across Stages and Categories 

Table 1 summarizes the dataset composition, including representative examples from each category. 

Specifically, the technical difficulty of the benchmark is characterized by three functional dimensions of 

complexity. First, for the Rule category, complexity is defined by the number of regulatory sources required 

to formulate a correct response . 79.65% of rule -related queries are classified as high -complexity, as they 

necessitate the simultaneous interpretation of two or more distinct regulatory clauses. 

Second, for the Rule Requirement, Model, and Check categories, complexity is driven by Geometric 

Computing and Relational Dependencies. Geometric Computing involving spatial quantitative analysis ,

accounts for 53.97% to 85.40% of the queries in these categories. Relational Dependencies capture the 

necessity of navigating topological or logical links between two or more interlinked IFC entities. 

Finally, the dataset incorporates high -level logical operations to simulate realistic professional 

workflows , includ ing table lookup operations integrated across all categories. Furthermore, each query 

category for every building model contains 1 –2 conditional exceptions, testing the framework's ability to 

handle edge cases where standard rules may be superseded by specifi c design contexts.                            

> Stage Category Number Multiple
> Rule Sources
> Geometric
> Computing
> Relational
> Dependencies Example
> Design -
> stage
> Rule 113 79.65% //
> What is the maximum
> allowable fire
> compartment area for
> commercial buildings?
> Rule
> Requirement 189 /53.97% 10.05%
> What clear width does
> the code actually require
> for this door?
> Check -
> stage
> Model 240 /57.92 %40.00% On which floor is this
> room located?
> Check 137 /85.40% 44.52%
> Does this stair comply
> with the code
> requirements?
> Overall /679 ////

25 

To assess model performance across this dataset, four evaluation dimensions were defined , Accuracy, 

Coherence, Relevance, and Explainability & Reasoning , capturing complementary aspects of response quality. 

Accuracy serves as the primary quantitative metric, reflecting factual correctness. To provide a more granular 

and rigorous assessment beyond a simple binary judgment, Accuracy is evaluated on a three -ti er scale of 0, 

0.5, and 1. A score of 1 (Fully Correct) is awarded only when the response delivers the correct final conclusion 

while simultaneously identifying all governing regulatory variables and accounting for situational boundary 

conditions defined in the code. This ensures that the framework demonstrates a complete understanding of the 

underlying re gulatory logic and situational variations, rather than merely retrieving isolated data points. 

A score of 0.5 (Partially Correct) is assigned when the system identifies the correct underlying 

regulatory mechanisms or relevant IFC entities but reaches an imprecise conclusion, or fails to address all 

necessary thresholds and specific edge cases requir ed for a comprehensive compliance check. This 

intermediate score allows for the differentiation between responses that are logically grounded but incomplete 

and those that are fundamentally flawed. Conversely, a score of 0 (Incorrect) is given when both th e final 

conclusion and the underlying reasoning path are found to be erroneous or based on hallucinated information. 

The remaining three metrics , Coherence, Relevance, and Explainability & Reasoning , provide qualitative 

insights into the clarity, completeness, and transparency of the generated responses. These qualitative 

dimensions are essential for ensuring that the system's outputs are not only accurate but also practical and 

trustworthy within regu latory workflows. Table 2 summarizes these metrics and provides their formal scoring 

criteria. 

Table 2 Evaluation Metrics and Scoring Criteria       

> Dimension Definition Key Judgment Criteria Scoring Scale
> Accuracy
> Whether the answer is factually
> correct and aligned with fire
> code context.
> -Fully correct (1)
> -Partially correct (0.5)
> -Incorrect (0)
> 0-1

26                            

> Coherence
> Degree to which the answer
> fully covers all relevant aspects,
> cases, or conditions implied by
> the question.
> -No unnatural references ( this rule ,this table )
> without context
> -No long GUID/random strings
> -Units properly formatted, readable, no
> encoding errors
> -If multiple cases apply, examples are provided
> -Overall fluency and readability
> 0–1
> Relevance
> Whether the answer directly
> addresses the user’s question.
> -Covers the core point(s) of the question
> -No digressions or irrelevant content
> -Provides adirect response, not just
> background
> 0–1
> Explainability &
> Reasoning
> Extent to which the answer
> provides a clear reasoning
> chain.
> -Shows reasoning, not only conclusion
> -Logical chain is transparent and easy to follow
> -Edge cases /exceptions are explained if
> relevant
> 0–1

Overall, the dataset provides a comprehensive and hierarchically structured benchmark that reflects 

the full spectrum of geometry -intensive information needs encountered in BIM -based fire safety workflows. 

By combining design -stage regulatory inquiries wit h check -stage model evaluations, it enables a rigorous 

assessment of both rule interpretation and geometry -grounded reasoning. The evaluation metrics complement 

this design by capturing not only factual correctness but also the clarity, relevance, and tran sparency required 

for reliable compliance support. This dataset –metric evaluation system establishes the foundation for the 

quantitative analyses presented in the following sections. 

4.2. Experimental Setup and Baseline Models 

To rigorously evaluate performance across the question categories and metrics introduced in Section 

4.1, we configure a controlled experimental environment in which all models , both our proposed SGR -BIM 27 

framework and the baseline systems , operate under consistent inference settings, tool access, and evaluation 

protocols. All experiments were conducted using large language model (LLM) backends under identical 

inference configurations to ensure fair comparison. Unless otherwise stated, the de fault backend for SGR -

BIM and all baselines was DeepSeek -3.2, with a temperature of 0 to eliminate sampling randomness and 

enforce deterministic reasoning behavior. This configuration allows the evaluation to focus on th e structural 

differences across reasoning strategies, particularly the contributions of tool usage, multi -agent coordination, 

and graph -driven cross -modal alignment , rather than stochastic generation variance. 

Under this deterministic configuration, all experiments were conducted in a single run. Preliminary 

small -scale tests indicated that model outputs remain stable when the temperature is set to 0, suggesting 

minimal variance introduced by the generation proc ess. Given the relatively large size of the benchmark (679 

questions) and the involvement of human verification for metrics, repeating the full experiment multiple times 

would incur substantial computational and annotation costs. Therefore, a single -run ev aluation strategy was 

adopted in this study. 

In our study, the information retrieval for regulatory codes and BIM model is implemented via 

dedicated functions that are wrapped as tools for the corresponding agents. These functions directly access 

structured information from pre -processed data sources and, through prompt design (as summarized in 

Appendix A ), convert it into a format interpretable by agents and incorporated into the semantic graph for 

context -aware reasoning. This approach allows the agents to perform multi -hop reasoning by iteratively 

invoking the retrieval tools as needed, while keeping the implementation deterministic and straightforward. 

As the retrieval tools operate deterministically, the effective success of information access primarily 

depends on the agent correctly calling the functions with appropriate parameters and timing, which in our 

controlled experimental setup is highly reliab le. One limitation of this approach is that the underlying data 

sources should be pre -processed and correctly formatted to ensure accurate information extraction. However, 

as the focus of this study is on cross -modal reasoning and semantic alignment, we in tentionally do not integrate 28 

more complex retrieval frameworks [46,58] , such as RAG or SPARQL, which are commonly applied in 

information retrieval for multimodal building regulations or IFC models. 

To isolate these contributions, we designed a set of baseline models that span a spectrum of reasoning 

capabilities, from single -agent chain -of -thought reasoning to well -established multi -agent collaboration 

frameworks. The Basic -tool Agent represents the lowest level of reasoning support, allowing an LLM to 

access only basic tools for retrieving rule text or BIM attributes. It does not incorporate any structured 

alignment strategy and thus reflects purely sequential reasoning driven by textual context. Bui lding on this, 

the Enhanced -tool Agent grants access to the full domain -specific toolset used by SGR -BIM , including rule 

retriever and IFC geometric query utilities. This baseline isolates the benefit of tool availability from the 

additional gains that may arise from coordination among agents or cross -modal semantic alignment .

Beyond single -agent systems, we include three widely recognized multi -agent frameworks , CAMEL, 

MetaGPT, and AutoGen , to evaluate whether general -purpose collaborative reasoning mechanisms can 

address the unique demands of geometry fire safety compliance check tasks. CAMEL employs two 

conversational agents in role -specific dialogue, enabling collaborative task decomposition but lacking any 

explicit representation of relationships between regulatory provisions and BIM geometry. MetaGPT follows 

a workflow -driven design, organizing multiple specialized agents (e.g., Planner, Reviewer) into a predefined 

pipeline that sequentially processes subtasks. AutoGen adopts a more flexible conversational architecture, 

where a group of agents engage in iterative negotiation an d self -correction while performing the task. 

Although these frameworks embody increasingly sophisticated coordination strategies, none provides explicit 

semantic alignment and reasoning among regulatory text, model entities, and user intent. 

By contrast, SGR -BIM integrates multi -agent collaboration with a graph -driven cross -modal semantic 

alignment mechanism that explicitly links regulatory clauses, IFC entities, and structured user intent. This 

alignment allows agents to operate over a shared semantic graph, ena bling multi -hop reasoning, latent entity 

linkage resolution, and transparent compliance check . Table 3 summarizes the comparative characteristics of 

each baseline considered in the evaluation. 29 

Table 3 Characteristics of Baseline Models and Our Model 

Model Multi -agent Cross -modal Data Alignment & Reasoning 

Basic -tool Agent No Chain -of -thought reasoning over data inputs using basic 

tools, without explicit cross -modal alignment 

Enhanced -tool 

Agent No Chain -of -thought reasoning with complete domain -specific 

toolset usage, without explicit cross -modal alignment 

CAMEL 

Baseline 

Yes (2 agents: auditor 

& assistant) 

Dialogue -based collaborative reasoning between agents, 

without explicit cross -modal alignment 

MetaGPT 

Baseline 

Yes ( 4 specialized 

roles: planner, 

analyzer, executor, 

reviewer )

Workflow -driven role coordination with sequential task 

passing; no explicit cross -modal alignment 

AutoGen 

Baseline 

Yes (3 agents: 

auditor, reasoner, 

reviewer) 

Dynamic conversational reasoning with self -corrective 

feedback; no explicit structured alignment 

SGR -BIM 

Yes ( 5 agents: intent, 

model, rule, analysis, 

response) 

Graph -based cross -modal alignment integrating rule 

semantics , IFC geometry representations , and user intent 

These baselines collectively provide a tiered comparison spanning single -agent reasoning, tool -

augmented processing, and multi -agent collaboration without structured alignment. This design allows us to 

systematically disentangle the contributions of tool i ntegration, multi -agent coordination, and graph -based 

cross -modal alignment. Section 4.3 presents the quantitative performance results across all baselines. 30 

4.3. Quantitative Performance 

This section presents the comprehensive quantitative results derived from the comparative experiments 

to evaluate the effectiveness of the SGR -BIM framework. 

4. 3.1. Overall Accuracy Performance 

Building on the experimental setup and baseline models introduced in Section 4.2, we first evaluate 

overall accuracy performance across the 679 geometry -related fire safety queries. Table 4 presents the correct ,

partial -correct, and incorrect response rates for each model across all stages and categories, together with the 

corresponding average accuracy scores. 

Table 4 Overall performance across all stages and categories for baseline models and SGR -BIM .

Stage Category Baseline Number Correct(%) Partial(%) Wrong(%) Avg Score 

Design -

stage 

Rule 

Basic -tool agent 

113 

70.8 15.0 14.2 78.3 

Enhanced -tool agent 82.3 8.8 8.8 86.7 

Camel Baseline 81.4 5.3 13.3 84.1 

metaGPT Baseline 73.5 15.0 11.5 81.0 

Autogen Baseline 77.0 5.3 17.7 79.6 

SGR -BIM 87.6 6.2 6.2 90.7 

Rule 

Requirement 

Basic -tool agent 

189 

0 16.4 83.6 8.2 

Enhanced -tool agent 65.6 9.5 24.9 70.4 

Camel Baseline 60.8 10.6 28.6 66.1 

metaGPT Baseline 27.5 45.5 27.0 50.3 

Autogen Baseline 50.3 19.0 30.7 59.8 

SGR -BIM 72.0 13.2 14.8 78.6 

Check -stage Model 

Basic -tool agent 

240 

5.4 5.8 88.8 8.3 

Enhanced -tool agent 70.4 12.1 17.5 76.5 

Camel Baseline 76.2 1.7 22.1 77.1 31 

metaGPT Baseline 69.6 5.0 25.4 72.1 

Autogen Baseline 75.0 9.2 15.8 79.6 

SGR -BIM 85.8 4.2 10 87.9 

Check 

Basic -tool agent 

137 

0 8.0 92.0 4.0 

Enhanced -tool agent 66.4 12.4 21.2 72.6 

Camel Baseline 57.7 19.0 23.4 67.2 

metaGPT Baseline 48.2 22.6 29.2 59.5 

Autogen Baseline 57.7 5.1 37.2 60.2 

SGR -BIM 75.2 10.9 13.9 80.7 

/ Overall 

Basic -tool agent 

679 

13.7 10.8 75.6 19.1 

Enhanced -tool agent 70.3 10.9 18.9 75.7 

Camel Baseline 69.1 8.2 22.7 73.2 

metaGPT Baseline 54.2 21.5 24.3 64.9 

Autogen Baseline 64.9 10.5 24.6 70.2 

SGR -BIM 80.1 8.4 11.5 84.3 

Across the full dataset, SGR -BIM achieves the highest overall accuracy of 84.3%, outperforming the 

generic multi -agent baselines by approximately 10%. On the other hand, the framework demonstrates a 

measurable 8.6% improvement over the Enhanced -tool Agent (75.7%). This performance margin suggests 

that while providing an LLM with specialized tools is sufficient for resolving a large portion of standard 

queries, the graph -driven multi -agent coordination becomes essential for complex reasoning. Specifically, the 

framework shows robustness in tasks where isolated tool invocations are insufficient to resolve latent spatial 

dependencies or multi -hop semantic alignments, proving that the added knowledge graph alignment yields 

tangible benefits for high -difficulty geometric compliance check tasks. 

Performance trends at the stage level further highlight this difference. In the design stage, SGR -BIM 

achieves 90.7% accuracy for rule queries, exceeding all baselines, and reaches 78.6% in the rule requirement 

category. The latter represents a substantial improvement over CAMEL (66.1%), AutoGen (59.8%), and 32 

MetaGPT (50.3%), indicating that deriving element -specific requirements from regulatory logic particularly 

benefits from structured semantic alignment. 

A similar pattern appears in the check stage, where SGR -BIM attains 87.9% accuracy for model 

queries and 80.7% for the more challenging geometry compliance check tasks. In both categories, SGR -BIM 

clearly outperforms all baselines, including the Enhanced -tool Agent (76.5% and 72.6%, respectively) and 

general -purpose multi -agent models. The largest gains occur in the compliance check category, where 

reasoning requires linking multiple IFC entities, interpreting conditional rule chains, and integrating geomet ric 

attributes , a process that general multi -agent systems struggle to handle without explicit alignment 

mechanisms. 

Table 5 Tukey HSD pairwise comparison results among different methods. 

Method A Method B Mean Difference (A − B) p-value Significant or not 

Enhanced -tool agent Basic -tool agent +0.566 3 <0.0001 √

Camel Baseline Enhanced -tool agent -0.0250 0.8502 ×

metaGPT Baseline Enhanced -tool agent -0.1075 <0.0001 √

Autogen Baseline Enhanced -tool agent -0.0552 0.1010 ×

SGR -BIM Basic -tool agent +0.6524 <0.0001 √

SGR -BIM Enhanced -tool agent +0.086 2 0.000 8 √

SGR -BIM Camel Baseline +0.111 2 <0.0001 √

SGR -BIM metaGPT Baseline +0.193 7 <0.0001 √

SGR -BIM Autogen Baseline +0.141 4 <0.0001 √

To further examine the performance differences among methods, we conducted a Tukey HSD pairwise 

comparison based on per -question results across the full dataset. The results are summarized in Table 5. The 

analysis shows that SGR -BIM consistently outperforms all baseline methods with statistically significant 

differences . In particular, the performance gains over the Basic -tool Agent (+0.6524) and MetaGPT (+0.1937) 

are substantial, while improvements over other multi -agent frameworks such as AutoGen (+0.1414 ) and 

CAMEL (+0.1112) remain consistently significant. When compared to the Enhanced -tool Agent, SGR -BIM 33 

still achieves a statistically significant improvement (+0.0862), indicating the effectiveness of the proposed 

graph -driven cross -modal alignment mechanism. 

Overall, these results demonstrate that SGR -BIM delivers consistently higher performance across all 

stages and question categories, with particularly strong advantages in tasks that require multi -hop rule 

interpretation and geometry -intensive reasoning. Th e finer -grained category -level analysis in Section 4.3.2 

further examines how task complexity influences these performance patterns. 

4. 3.2. Fine -grained Category Performance 

To further investigate how task structure and reasoning complexity affect model behavior, we conduct 

a fine -grained analysis within each question category. The detailed quantitative results are presented across 

four tables: rule queries (Table 6), rule requirement queries (Table 7), model queries (Table 8), and check 

queries (Table 9). These tables collectively illustrate how accuracy varies with increasing logical complexity, 

geometric dependency, and the degree of cross -modal alignment required. Across al l four subtasks, SGR -BIM 

consistently demonstrates high robustness, particularly in conditions involving multi -hop rule interpretation, 

geometric computation, or IFC entity relationship reasoning. 

Table 6 Performance on RULE queries under different numbers of regulatory clause sources .

Number of Rule 

Sources Baseline Number Correct(%) Partial(%) Wrong(%) Avg Score 

1

Basic -tool agent 

23 

87.0 4.3 8.7 89.1 

Enhanced -tool agent 95.7 4.3 0.0 97.8 

Camel Baseline 95.7 0.0 4.3 95.7 

metaGPT Baseline 73.9 21.7 4.3 84.8 

Autogen Baseline 91.3 4.3 4.3 93.5 

SGR -BIM 95.7 0.0 4.3 95.7 

2

Basic -tool agent 

70 

67.1 18.6 14.3 76.4 

Enhanced -tool agent 78.6 8.6 12.8 82.8 34 

Camel Baseline 78.6 5.7 15.7 81.4 

metaGPT Baseline 70.0 15.7 14.3 77.9 

Autogen Baseline 71.4 4.3 24.3 73.6 

SGR -BIM 85.7 8.6 5.7 90.0 

3

Basic -tool agent 

20 

65.0 15.0 20.0 72.5 

Enhanced -tool agent 80.0 15.0 5.0 87.5 

Camel Baseline 75.0 10.0 15.0 80.0 

metaGPT Baseline 85.0 5.0 10.0 87.5 

Autogen Baseline 80.0 10.0 10.0 85.0 

SGR -BIM 85.0 5.0 10.0 87.5 

Overall 

Basic -tool agent 

113 

70.8 15.0 14.2 78.3 

Enhanced -tool agent 82.3 8.8 8.8 86.7 

Camel Baseline 81.4 5.3 13.3 84.1 

metaGPT Baseline 73.5 15.0 11.5 81.0 

Autogen Baseline 77.0 5.3 17.7 79.6 

SGR -BIM 87.6 6.2 6.2 90.7 

The results for rule queries, summarized in Table 6, reveal how performance changes as the number 

of required rule sources increases. When only a single regulatory clause is needed, all systems perform 

relatively well, with most models , including CAMEL, AutoGen, and Enhanced -tool Agent , scoring above 

93%, while SGR -BIM achieves 95.7%. However, when two clauses are required, accuracy declines noticeably 

for all baselines, while SGR -BIM remains substantially more stable (90.0%). This stability persists in the most 

challenging three -clause setting, where SGR -BIM reaches 87.5%, whereas the best -performing multi -agent 

baseline (CAMEL) falls to 80.0%, and MetaGPT drops to 68.4%. 35 

Table 7 Performance on RULE REQUIREMENT queries across increasing geometric and relational 

reasoning complexity .

Calculation or 

Element Relationship 

Involved 

Baseline Number Correct(%) Partial(%) Wrong(%) Avg Score 

No calculation and 

relationship 

Basic -tool agent 

87 

0.0 11.5 88.5 5.7 

Enhanced -tool agent 57.5 10.3 32.2 62.6 

Camel Baseline 57.5 10.3 32.2 62.6 

metaGPT Baseline 13.8 59.8 26.4 43.7 

Autogen Baseline 42.5 19.5 37.9 52.3 

SGR -BIM 65.5 16.1 18.4 73.6 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

83 

0.0 21.7 78.3 10.8 

Enhanced -tool agent 68.7 9.6 21.7 73.5 

Camel Baseline 59.0 13.3 27.7 65.7 

metaGPT Baseline 34.9 36.1 28.9 53.0 

Autogen Baseline 50.6 21.7 27.7 61.4 

SGR -BIM 74.7 12.0 13.3 80.7 

Relationship and 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

19 

0.0 15.8 84.2 7.9 

Enhanced -tool agent 89.5 5.3 5.3 92.1 

Camel Baseline 84.2 0.0 15.8 84.2 

metaGPT Baseline 57.9 21.1 21.1 68.4 

Autogen Baseline 84.2 5.3 10.5 86.8 

SGR -BIM 89.5 5.3 5.3 92.1 

Overall 

Basic -tool agent 

189 

0.0 16.4 83.6 8.2 

Enhanced -tool agent 65.6 9.5 24.9 70.4 

Camel Baseline 60.8 10.6 28.6 66.1 

metaGPT Baseline 27.5 45.5 27.0 50.3 

Autogen Baseline 50.3 19.0 30.7 59.8 

SGR -BIM 72.0 13.2 14.8 78.6 36 

A similar pattern is observed for rule requirement queries, detailed in Table 7, which additionally 

require inferring the geometric specifications needed for design compliance. In the simplest subset , queries 

requiring neither calculation nor cross -entity reasoning , SGR -BIM achieves 73.6%, outperforming CAMEL 

(62.6%) and AutoGen (52.3%). When geometric calculation is required, the gap widens significantly, with 

SGR -BIM achieving 80.7% compared to CAMEL (65.7%), MetaGPT (53.0%), and Autogen (61.4%). The 

most challenging queries, involving both calculations and spatial relationship inference, further highlight 

SGR -BIM ’s advantage: it reaches 92.1%, matching or exceeding the strongest baseline conditions and 

significantly outperforming MetaGPT (68.4%). Overall, SGR -BIM attains 78.6% on this category, 

outperforming all baseline models .

Table 8 Performance on MODEL queries across different geometric computation and relational reasoning 

conditions .

Calculation or 

Element Relationship 

Involved 

Baseline Number Correct(%) Partial(%) Wrong(%) Avg Score 

No calculation and 

relationship 

Basic -tool agent 

55 

0.0 10.9 89.1 5.5 

Enhanced -tool agent 74.5 5.5 20.0 77.3 

Camel Baseline 72.7 0.0 27.3 72.7 

metaGPT Baseline 74.5 9.1 16.4 79.1 

Autogen Baseline 58.2 27.3 14.5 71.8 

SGR -BIM 85.5 3.6 10.9 87.3 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

89 

13.5 4.5 82.0 15.7 

Enhanced -tool agent 75.3 12.4 12.4 81.5 

Camel Baseline 82.0 4.5 13.5 84.3 

metaGPT Baseline 64.0 2.2 33.7 65.2 

Autogen Baseline 82.0 3.4 14.6 83.7 

SGR -BIM 88.8 6.7 4.5 92.1 37 

Relationship 

Basic -tool agent 

46 

2.2 6.5 91.3 5.4 

Enhanced -tool agent 71.7 13.0 15.2 78.3 

Camel Baseline 76.1 0.0 23.9 76.1 

metaGPT Baseline 76.1 4.3 19.6 78.3 

Autogen Baseline 76.1 4.3 19.6 78.3 

SGR -BIM 89.1 2.2 8.7 90.2 

Relationship and 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

50 

0.0 2.0 98.0 1.0 

Enhanced -tool agent 56.0 18.0 26.0 65.0 

Camel Baseline 70.0 0.0 30.0 70.0 

metaGPT Baseline 68.0 6.0 26.0 71.0 

Autogen Baseline 80.0 4.0 16.0 82.0 

SGR -BIM 78.0 2.0 20.0 79.0 

Overall 

Basic -tool agent 

240 

5.4 5.8 88.8 8.3 

Enhanced -tool agent 70.4 12.1 17.5 76.5 

Camel Baseline 76.2 1.7 22.1 77.1 

metaGPT Baseline 69.6 5.0 25.4 72.1 

Autogen Baseline 75.0 9.2 15.8 79.6 

SGR -BIM 85.8 4.2 10.0 87.9 

For model queries, summarized in Table 8, which focus on extracting geometric or relational 

information from the IFC model, SGR -BIM again shows the best performance. In tasks with no calculation 

or relationship reasoning, SGR -BIM achieves 87.3%, a clear improvement over CAMEL (72.7%) and 

MetaGPT (79.1%). When calculation is required, SGR -BIM reaches 92.1%, surpassing CAMEL (84.3%) and 

AutoGen (83.7%), with MetaGPT dropping significantly to 65.2%. Relationship -only tasks show a similar 

advantage, with SGR -BI M attaining 90.2%, compared with typical multi -agent baseline scores ranging from 

76 –78%. Even in the most complex combined relationship -and -calculation subset, SGR -BIM maintains 

competitive performance at 79.0%, while Enhanced -tool Agent drops to 65.0% and MetaGPT to 71.0%. 38 

Aggregated across all model queries, SGR -BIM achieves 87.9%, outperforming all baselines in model -centric 

queries .

Table 9 Performance on CHECK queries across different geometric computation and relational reasoning 

conditions .

Calculation or 

Element Relationship 

Involved 

Baseline Number Correct(%) Partial(%) Wrong(%) Avg Score 

No calculation and 

relationship 

Basic -tool agent 

20 

0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 

Enhanced -tool agent 35.0 10.0 55.0 40.0 

Camel Baseline 40.0 35.0 25.0 57.5 

metaGPT Baseline 25.0 25.0 50.0 37.5 

Autogen Baseline 25.0 15.0 60.0 32.5 

SGR -BIM 80.0 0.0 20.0 80.0 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

56 

0.0 5.4 94.6 2.7 

Enhanced -tool agent 75.0 12.5 12.5 81.2 

Camel Baseline 60.7 14.3 25.0 67.9 

metaGPT Baseline 44.6 32.1 23.2 60.7 

Autogen Baseline 48.2 5.4 46.4 50.9 

SGR -BIM 71.4 16.1 12.5 79.5 

Relationship and 

Calculation 

Basic -tool agent 

61 

0.0 13.1 86.9 6.6 

Enhanced -tool agent 68.9 13.1 18.0 75.4 

Camel Baseline 60.7 18.0 21.3 69.7 

metaGPT Baseline 59.0 13.1 27.9 65.6 

Autogen Baseline 77.0 1.6 21.3 77.9 

SGR -BIM 77.0 9.8 13.1 82.0 

Overall 

Basic -tool agent 

137 

0.0 8.0 92.0 4.0 

Enhanced -tool agent 66.4 12.4 21.2 72.6 39 

Camel Baseline 57.7 19.0 23.4 67.2 

metaGPT Baseline 48.2 22.6 29.2 59.5 

Autogen Baseline 57.7 5.1 37.2 60.2 

SGR -BIM 75.2 10.9 13.9 80.7 

Finally, the most challenging category , check queries , is presented in Table 9. These tasks integrate 

rule interpretation, model extraction, geometric computation, and cross -entity relationship reasoning. In the 

simplest subset requiring neither calculation nor relationship reasoning, baseline accuracy varies widely: the 

Basic -tool Agent performs poorly (0%), CAMEL moderately (57.5%), and AutoGen even lower (32.5%). In 

contrast, SGR -BIM achieves 80.0%, demonstrating improved robustness even for simpler compliance 

judgments. For calculation -based compliance checks, SGR -BIM again leads with 79.5%, while CAMEL 

reaches 67.9% and AutoGen only 50.9%. The most demanding relationship -and -calculation subset further 

highlights the strength of explicit alignment: SGR -BIM reaches 82.0%, outperforming CAMEL (69.7%) and 

MetaGPT (65.6%). Overall, SGR -BIM achieves 80.7% in this category, exceeding all baselines. 

Across all four tables and all fine -grained difficulty subdivisions, the results show a consistent pattern: 

SGR -BIM remains substantially more stable than all multi -agent baselines as task complexity increases, 

particularly when reasoning requires multi -clause regulation interpretation, geometric computation, or latent 

relationship resolution across IFC entities. These findings reinforce the overall performance trends reported 

in Section 4.3.1 and illustrate the critical role of explicit graph -driven semant ic alignment in enabling reliable 

geometry compliance check .

4.4. Error Analysis 

To better understand the limitations of the proposed framework, we conducted a detailed error analysis 

on all responses whose accuracy label was not equal to 1 (i.e., responses assessed as partially correct with a 

score of 0.5 or incorrect with a score of 0). Across the full dataset of 679 queries, 135 responses fell into this 

category, corresponding to an overall error proportion of 19.9%. These cases were further categorized into 40 

five distinct error types: incomplete answers, misunderstanding of user intent, insufficient understanding of 

model or rule information, faulty reasoning and inference, and systemic errors related to tool or system 

behavior. The distribution of these error types across all task categories is summarized in Table 10 (a) . As 

illustrated in Table 10(b), a fully correct score (1) is strictly reserved for responses that not only reach the 

correct conclusion but also demonstrate a complete mastery of the underlying regulatory logic , such as 

identifying the relationship between area, occupancy factors, and discrete capacity thresholds. 

Table 10 (a) Distribution of error types across different question categories. 

Error Category/Category Rule Rule Requirement Model Check Overall 

Number 14 53 34 34 135 

Total Number 113 189 240 137 679 

Incomplete answer 50.0% 47.2% 29.4% 44.1% 42.2% 

Misunderstanding of user intent 7.1% 5.7% 2.9% 0% 3.7% 

Insufficient understanding of model or rule 

information 0% 22.6% 17.6% 5.9% 14.8% 

Faulty reasoning and inference 42.9% 18.9% 14.7% 35.3 % 24.4% 

Systemic error 0% 5.7% 35.3% 14.7% 14.8% 

Table 10(b) Representative scoring examples for the Accuracy metric. 

Score Rating 

Response Example (Query: "Do larger rooms 

automatically require additional exit doors 

according to the code?") 

Rationale for Score 

1 Fully 

Correct 

No, larger rooms do not automatically require 

additional exit doors . Exit door requirements are 

based on occupant capacity (room area / occupancy 

factor). A larger room with a high occupancy factor 

(e.g., a warehouse at 30 m²/person) may require fewer 

exit doors than a smaller room with a low occupancy 

factor (e.g., a rest aurant at 1 m²/person). The trigger is 

the calculated occupant capacity, not room size alone. 

Also, even if the occupancy factor is constant, an 

increase in area only necessitates more doo rs if the 

resulting capacity crosses a specific threshold .

Conclusion and logic are both fully 

correct. The response demonstrates a 

multi -variable analysis: it explains the 

compensatory effect of the occupancy 

factor and identifies that door 

requirements are tied to discrete 

capacity thresholds. It correctly refut es 

the "automatic" premise by 

highlighting that area increases do not 

always lead to capacity -threshold 

crossings. 

0.5 Partially 

Correct 

Yes, larger rooms do require additional exit doors. 

The requirement is based on occupant capacity rather 

than room area alone. The number of exit doors 

increases at specific occupant capacity thresholds: 1 

door for 4 –30 persons, 2 doors for 31 –500 persons, 3 

Correctly identifies the core 

mechanism (occupant capacity and 

thresholds). However, it fails to reach 

the precise conclusion regarding the 

"automatic" nature of the query. It 41 

doors for 501 –750 persons, and 4 doors for 751 –1000 

persons. 

misses the comparative discussion on 

how different occupancy factors can 

result in larger rooms requiring fewer 

doors than smaller ones. 

0 Incorrect 

Yes, larger rooms automatically require additional 

exit doors. The requirement is based on calculated 

occupant capacity. The number of exit doors increases 

with higher occupant counts, which are calculated by 

dividing room area by the appropriate occupancy 

factor. 

Incorrect conclusion and flawed logic. 

While it mentions capacity, it 

fundamentally confirms the 

"automatic" premise and fails to 

distinguish between a continuous area 

increase and the discrete, factor -

dependent nature of the regulatory 

requirement. 

Table 10(c) Diagnostic breakdown of error patterns .

Error 

Category Query Answer 

(Incorrect/Partial) Ground Truth Explanation of 

Error 

Incomplete 

Answer 

"Do larger 

rooms 

automatically 

require 

additional 

exit doors 

according to 

the code?" 

"Yes, larger rooms do 

require additional exit 

doors. The requirement 

is based on occupant 

capacity... [lists 

thresholds]. "

“No, larger rooms do not 

automatically require additional 

exits. It depends on the occupant 

capacity (Area/Factor)... a larger 

room with a high factor may require 

fewer doors than a smaller room. ”

The system 

identifies the 

capacity -based 

mechanism but fails 

to recognize the 

logic of thresholds 

and the comparative 

effect of occupancy 

factors, leading to 

an imprecise 

conclusion. 

Misundersta 

nding of 

User Intent 

"Does the 

area behind 

this door need 

to provide at 

least two 

exits, as 

required by 

the code?" 

"Yes, the area behind 

this door (Living room) 

meets the exit 

requirements. The room 

has 1 door with a width 

of 1.81m , exceeding the 

750mm requirement." 

"No, the area only needs 1 exit door 

with a width of at least 750mm for 

its 3 -person occupant capacity." 

The system 

misinterprets a 

query about the 

required quantity 

of exits as a 

compliance check 

for the existing 

door’s width ,

failing to address 

the core question of 

whether a second 

exit is mandatory. 

Insufficient 

Information 

Retrieval 

"How wide 

does this exit 

door is 

required to be 

according to 

the code?" 

"According to rules for 

warehouses, the factor is 

30m²/person . However, 

without specific area 

information, I cannot 

calculate the exact 

capacity." 

"The door must be at least 750mm 

wide. The room area is 80m² ,

resulting in a capacity of 3 persons, 

which falls into the 750mm 

requirement bracket." 

The system 

identifies the correct 

regulatory logic but 

fails to invoke the 

tool necessary to 

retrieve specific 

BIM data (room 

area), resulting in a 

generic explanation 

instead of a specific 

calculation. 

Faulty 

Reasoning 

and 

Inference 

"Which fire 

compartments 

are on Floor 

1?" 

"Based on the room 

naming convention, I can 

see that rooms starting 

with '1 -' are on Floor 1. 

"There are 5 fire compartments on 

Floor 1 [lists names]. These were 

identified by querying the explicit 

The system relies on 

a heuristic "naming 

convention" 

shortcut rather than 42 

> Therefore, the fire
> compartments on Floor 1
> are..."
> 'contains' relationships in the IFC
> model."
> executing a formal
> query of the IFC
> spatial structure,
> which is unreliable
> for non -
> standardized
> models.

Across all categories, incomplete answers represent the most frequent error type, accounting for 42.2% 

of all erroneous responses. This issue is especially prevalent in rule requirement (47.2%) and rule queries 

(50.0%). These tasks typically involve multi -clause rule interpretation and extraction of design thresholds 

from textual or tabular specifications. Errors in this category most often arise when the system retrieves the 

correct rule fragments but fails to consolidate all relevant conditions , such as m issing exceptions, scope 

restrictions, or numerical thresholds , leading to partially correct or underspecified outputs. The "Incomplete 

Answer" case in Table 10(c) further elucidates this phenomenon, where the system correctly identifies the 

capacity -based mechanism but fails to recognize the effect of occupancy factors, resulting in an over -

generalized conclusion. Although SGR -BIM reduces such omissions compared with baselines, the persistence 

of this issue highlights the inherent difficulty of aggregating dispersed regulatory information into a complete 

and coherent answer. 

Faulty reasoning and inference, the second largest error category (24.4%), is particularly frequent in rule 

(42.9%) and check tasks (35.3%). These tasks require multi -hop logical chaining that spans rule semantics, 

geometric attributes, and IFC entity rela tionships. Typical mistakes include applying incorrect occupancy 

factors or using incorrect attributes from certain elements . As diagnosed in Table 10(c), these errors often 

stem from the model's reliance on unreliable heuristics, such as room naming conventions, rather than 

executing formal spatial queries within the IFC structure. This indicates that while graph alignment provi des 

structured context, robust topological navigation remains a challeng e for agents. 

A third category, insufficient understanding of model or rule information, accounts for 14.8% of errors, 

especially in rule requirement (22.6%) and model queries (17.6%). Errors here often involve referencing the 

wrong IFC entity, retrieving an incorrect g eometric attribute, or overlooking a key parameter in regulatory 43 

tables. A representative instance is provided in Table 10(c), where the system correctly interprets the 

regulatory logic but fails to invoke the necessary tool to retrieve the required room area from the BIM model, 

leading to an abstract response rather than a gro unded calculation . This pattern suggests that although cross -

modal alignment provides explicit connections between rules and geometry, fine -grained data extraction still 

presents difficulties, particularly when IFC entities have heterogeneous model ing patterns or when multiple 

candidate attributes appear relevant. 

Misunderstanding of user intent, though relatively infrequent (3.7%), occurs across three categories. 

These errors typically arise when the system misclassifies a query , such as interpreting a requirement query 

as a compliance check . Table 10(c) highlights such a "semantic drift," where the system focuses on checking 

a door's width instead of addressing the user's core question regarding the mandatory quantity of exits. While 

the occurrence rate is low, such misinterpretations can lead to fully irrelevant answers, indicating that accurate 

intent grounding remains essential for reliable interactive behavior. 

Finally, systemic errors (14.8% overall) reflect issues not with reasoning but with system execution, such 

as failures in IFC parsing, incorrect tool responses, or inconsistencies in intermediate agent states. These errors 

are most prominent in model queries (35.3%), where the IFC analyzing toolkit interacts heavily with the BIM 

model. Although such issues lie outside the core reasoning mechanism, they emphasize the importance of 

robust engineering when deploying geometry compliance checking systems on real -world IFC data. 

Overall, the error analysis indicates that the dominant sources of errors are incomplete synthesis of 

information and failures in complex multi -step reasoning, both central challenges of geometry compliance 

check for fire safety codes . Compared with these challenges, errors arising from misunderstanding user intent 

occur far less frequently, suggesting that the graph -driven alignment mechanism is generally effective at 

grounding queries and linking them to corresponding rule and model contexts. These findin gs highlight that 

the main opportunities for future improvement lie in strengthening the system’s ability to support deeper multi -

hop reasoning and ensure more reliable extraction and integration of BIM -based geometric information within 

complex compliance check tasks. 44 

4.5. Discussion 

To further assess the robustness and utility of the proposed framework, this section provides a discussion 

of the experimental results. 

4. 5.1. Impact of Backend LLM Choice 

While the main experiments in this study are conducted using DeepSeek -3.2 [59] as the backend 

language model, we additionally examine the impact of backend LLM choice using part of the samples from 

the whole dataset by evaluating SGR -BIM with GPT -4o [60] . This analysis serves as a complementary 

investigation of proposed framework between language models. The results are summarized in Table 11.

Table 11 Performance of SGR -BIM under different LLM backends .

Category Backend Correct (%) Partial (%) Wrong (%) Avg Score 

Rule GPT -4o 83.2 8.0 8.8 87.2 

DeepSeek -3.2 87.6 6.2 6.2 90.7 

Rule Requirement GPT -4o 46.5 20.9 32.6 57 

DeepSeek -3.2 67.4 18.6 14.0 76.7 

Model GPT -4o 69.6 7.1 23.2 73.2 

DeepSeek -3.2 87.5 7.1 5.4 91.1 

Check GPT -4o 43.3 16.7 40.0 51.7 

DeepSeek -3.2 80.0 10.0 10.0 85.0 

Overall GPT -4o 68.6 11.2 20.2 74.2 

DeepSeek -3.2 83.1 9.1 7.9 87.6 

Overall, SGR -BIM exhibits consistent performance trends across both backends, with DeepSeek -3.2 

yielding higher accuracy across all categories. The performance difference is relatively small for rule queries, 

where both backends achieve strong results once regulatory sema ntics are explicitly structured by the graph -

based alignment mechanism. This observation suggests that for tasks dominated by rule retrieval and 

interpretation, the framework’s alignment strategy plays a more decisive role than the specific language model 

used. 45 

In contrast, larger performance gaps emerge in categories that require deeper geometric reasoning and 

cross -modal integration, including rule requirement, model, and geometry compliance check tasks. In these 

settings, DeepSeek -3.2 consistently achieves hig her accuracy and lower error rates than GPT -4o. This pattern 

indicates that backend models differ in their ability to sustain multi -step reasoning over structured geometric 

information and to reliably integrate intermediate results across multiple reasonin g steps. From a

methodological perspective, these results suggest that differences in backend performance mainly affect the 

absolute accuracy level rather than the overall behavior or strengths of the framework. 

4. 5.2. Evaluation on Explainability and Reasoning Quality 

Beyond accuracy, practical geometry compliance check requires that system outputs be coherent, 

relevant, and explainable, particularly in regulatory and safety -critical contexts where users must understand 

not only what decision is made, but also why. To e xamine these qualitative aspects, we evaluate SGR -BIM 

using additional metrics , coherence, relevance, and explainability , across all task categories. Rather than 

comparing against multiple multi -agent frameworks, this analysis focuses exclusively on the En hanced -tool 

Agent as the baseline. This choice isolates the impact of multi -agent coordination and reasoning organization, 

since both systems have access to the same domain -specific toolset, and differ primarily in how retrieved 

information is aligned, integrated, and reasoned over. 

Table 12 Qualitative evaluation of explainability and reasoning quality .

Category Agent Accuracy Coherence Relevance Explainability 

Rule 

Enhanced -tool Agent 86.7 95.9 98.8 65.5 

SGR -BIM 90.7 96.8 97.1 97.3 

Rule Requirement Enhanced -tool Agent 70.4 71.4 92.5 71.8 

SGR -BIM 78.6 96.1 96.8 99.3 

Model Enhanced -tool Agent 76.5 74.9 97.3 55.8 

SGR -BIM 87.9 87.9 99.4 99.9 

Check Enhanced -tool Agent 72.6 83 99.2 97.5 46 

SGR -BIM 80.7 97.7 100 100 

Overall 

Enhanced -tool Agent 75.7 79.2 96.7 70.4 

SGR -BIM 84.3 93.7 98.4 99.3 

These metrics except accuracy are derived through LLM -assisted evaluation following predefined 

criteria and subsequently verified through manual inspection to ensure consistency and correctness. This 

inspection was conducted by a research team consisting of three members with BIM expertise, all of whom 

possess over one year of experience in BIM research, including one senior practitioner with extensive industry 

experience. To ensure the objectivity of the manual audit, the reviewers first performed independent checks 

on the LLM -generate d scores. Any discrepancies or borderline cases between the LLM judge and human 

reviewers, or among the human reviewers themselves, were resolved through a formal consensus -based 

reconciliation process. In these sessions, the team collectively reviewed the reasoning path and the IFC model 

context to determine the final score. 

This evaluation setup allows us to assess qualitative reasoning characteristics while maintaining 

practical scalability. The results, summarized in Table 12, show that SGR -BIM consistently outperforms the 

Enhanced -tool Agent across all non -accuracy metrics and all task categories. For coherence, which measures 

whether answers fully and fluently cover the necessary aspects of a question, SGR -BIM achieves substantial 

gains. This improvement is especially evident in rule requirement and check categories, where regulatory 

conditions, geometric constraints, and contextual qualifiers must be combined into a unified response. The 

Enhanced -tool Agent, d espite accessing correct informati on, often produces fragmented or partially articulated 

answers, whereas SGR -BIM benefits from graph -based aggregation of relevant elements, leading to more 

complete and structured outputs. Performance differences are less pronounced for relevance, where both 

systems perform strongly. This is expected, as both models leverage explicit tool -based retrieval, ensuring 

that answers generally address the intended question. 47 

The most striking contrast appears in explainability. Across all categories, SGR -BIM achieves high 

explainability scores, while the Enhanced -tool Agent exhibits significantly lower values, particularly in model 

and rule queries. In many cases, the Enhanced -tool Agent provides correct conclusions but fails to articulate 

the intermediate reasoning steps, leaving key assumptions, calculations, or rule references implicit. In contrast, 

SGR -BIM generates explicit reasoning traces grounded in the semantic graph, making intermediate decisions, 

referenced entities, and applied constraints transparent and easy to follow. This difference directly reflects the 

effect of graph -driven alignment and multi -agent coordination, which encourage the system to reason over 

struc tured representations rather than relying solely on implicit chain -of -thought generation. 

Importantly, this explainability is not limited to textual output alone. The structured reasoning paths 

generated over the semantic graph are directly reflected in the interactive user interface introduced earlier. 

Through the UI, users can inspect referen ced BIM elements, trace which regulatory clauses were applied, and 

review intermediate geometric evaluations, thereby transforming explainability from a passive narrative into 

an interactive exploration process. This tight coupling between graph -based reas oning and user -facing 

visualization enables practitioners to verify results, identify potential modeling issues, and iteratively refine 

designs with greater confidence. 

Overall, this evaluation demonstrates that the benefits of SGR -BIM extend beyond improved accuracy. 

By explicitly structuring cross -modal information and organizing reasoning over a shared semantic graph, the 

framework substantially enhances answer coherence and explainability without sacrificing relevance. These 

qualiti es are essential for real -world fire safety compliance workflows, where regulatory approval, design 

iteration, and professional accountability depend on transparent and interpretable decisio n-making. The results 

further support the argument that structured alignment is a key enabler of explainable and trustworthy 

geometry compliance check. 

4. 5.3. Analysis of Knowledge Graph Characteristics 

To provide a clearer understanding of the behavior and scalability of the knowledge graph, this section 

presents an analysis of its structural characteristics across different query categories. In SGR -BIM, the 48 

knowledge graph is implemented as a dynamic directed multi -graph, whose size and topology evolve 

iteratively depending on the query intent, regulatory complexity, and BIM model structure. Rather than 

constructing a full -scale representation of the BIM mode l, the graph is built in a task -driven manner, 

incrementally incorporating only the entities and relationships required for the current compliance evaluation. 

Table 13 Knowledge Graph Statistics across Different Query Categories   

> *Note: The reported values represent approximate ranges and may vary depending on query complexity and BIM model size.
> For example, when evaluating a stair serving multiple rooms or fire compartments in complex BIM models, the number of
> associated entities can increase substantially, resulting in rapid growth in node and edge counts.

Table 13 summarizes the observed graph statistics across different query categories defined in Section 

4.1. The results show that the graph size varies systematically with the category of the task. For simple rule -

based queries (Rule category), the graph typically contains a small number of nodes and edges, as only 

regulatory information is required. In contrast, Rule Requirement and Model queries involve moderate graph 

sizes, reflecting the need to interpret constraints or retrieve model -specific attributes. The m ost complex 

category, Check queries, requires integrating regulatory provisions with BIM entities through multi -hop 

reasoning chains, resulting in larger graphs with increased numbers of nodes, edges, and reasoning steps. The 

reported hop distance correspo nds to the length of the reasoning path connecting the initial query to the final 

decision, reflecting the depth of cross -modal dependencies involved in the task. It should be noted that the 

statistics reported in Table 13 represent approximate ranges obse rved during the experimental evaluation. 

Stage Category Avg. Nodes * Avg. Edges * Avg. Hop 

Distance * Typical Range 

Design -stage 

Rule ~ 3 - 5 ~ 2 - 4 ~ 3 - 5 Small 

Rule Requirement ~ 5 - 7 ~ 5 - 7 ~ 5 - 7 Medium 

Check -stage 

Model ~ 5 - 7 ~ 5 - 7 ~ 5 - 7 Medium 

Check ≥ 7 ≥ 7 ≥ 7 Large 49 

The size and structure of the graph are influenced by several factors. First, the query category plays a 

dominant role: queries that involve only a single information source (either regulatory codes or BIM model )

tend to produce smaller graphs, while compliance checking tasks that require cross -modal alignment result in 

larger and more complex structures. Second, the complexity of the reasoning process directly affects graph 

expansion. Multi -step rule chains intr oduce intermediate entities and relationships , increasing both node and 

edge counts. Third, the scale of the BIM model also impacts graph size. For example, when evaluating 

relationships such as a stair serving multiple rooms or fire compartments, a large number of connected entities 

may be introduce d into the graph, leading to significant growth in its structure. 

The architectur e of the knowledge graph is illustrated in Fig 4, which provides both the graph schema 

and a concrete example of its application in a check task . This figure demonstrates how nodes (e.g., BIM 

entities and regulatory rules) and relational edges are dynamically organized to support multi -hop reasoning. 

The query, “Does the width of this door comply with the code requirements?”, serves as the root node from 

which the graph is incrementally constructed through iterative agent interactions. The graph is not generated 

in a single step . Instead, it is progressively expanded as the system retrieves, computes, and integrates 

information across modalities during the reasoning process. 50   

> Fig. 4Structural schema and representative instance of the knowledge graph for a compliance query.

Starting from the query node, the system first identifies the relevant BIM entity (Door) and retrieves 

its geometric attribute (width). However, the required width cannot be directly determined at this stage, as it 

depends on the occupant load associated w ith the connected space. This dependency triggers further graph 

expansion: the Door node is linked to its corresponding Room node, from which the area is obtained. The 

occupant capacity is then computed based on regulatory rules (e.g., occupancy factor), a nd only after this 

calculation is completed is the occupant attribute added to the Room node. This intermediate result 

subsequently enables the evaluation of the minimum required door width. 

This incremental construction process ensures that all intermediate states, including derived attributes 

and rule dependencies, are explicitly preserved. Consequently, the graph serves not only as a data structure 51 

for reasoning but also as a transparent trace of the decision -making process, enabling users to inspect how 

each piece of information contributes to the final compliance result. 

Finally, on the other hand, i t is important to clarify the scope of geometric representation supported by 

the proposed method. In this study, geometric properties are derived from semantic and parametric 

information available in IFC models, such as dimensions, areas, and spatial relat ionships associated with 

building elements. The framework does not directly operate on low -level geometric representations such as 

tessellated meshes. If the IFC model encodes geometry purely as mesh data without explicit param etric 

attributes, additional pre -processing would be required to extract meaningful geometric information. This 

limitation defines the current applicability of the method and highlights a direction for future research in 

integrating mesh -level geometric reasoning. 

4. 5.4. Functional Comparison and Practical Applicability Analysis 

To evaluate the practical utility of SGR -BIM within the broader AEC industry, we conducted a 

functional comparison of its system characteristics against three established Automated Compliance Checking 

(ACC) paradigms: commercial model checkers (e.g., Solib ri), hard -coded/visual programming scripts (e.g., 

C# or Dynamo), and template -based research systems. This comparison, summarized in Table 14, clarifies the 

methodological shift introduced by SGR -BIM and highlights its unique advantages in real -world depl oyment 

scenarios. 

Table 14 Functional Comparison and Practical Applicability Analysis 

Comparison 

Dimensions 

Commercial 

Model Checkers 

(e.g., Solibri) 

Hard -coded/Visual 

Programming (e.g., 

C#, Dynamo) 

Template -based 

Systems 

SGR -BIM 

User Interaction GUI -based Menu Scripting Interface Natural Language 

Hybrid 

Conversational 52 

and Visual 

Interface 

Rule Authoring 

Effort 

Low (if pre -

defined) 

High (Manual 

Coding) 

Medium (Template 

Mapping) 

Low (Agent -

interpreted) 

Semantic 

Alignment 

Manual Mapping Hard -coded Logic Manual Mapping 

Dynamic Graph -

driven Alignment 

Geometric 

Flexibility 

Rigid (Fixed 

Operators) 

High (Custom 

Algorithms) 

Limited (Pre -

defined Templates) 

High 

(Autonomous 

Tool Use) 

Deployment 

Overhead 

High (Proprietary 

Setup) 

High (Environment 

Config) 

Medium 

Low (API -

integrated) 

Explainability and 

Transparency 

Black -box 

(Proprietary) 

Code -level 

(Complex) 

Fixed/Template -

constrained 

Traceable 

As shown in Table 14, commercial software and hard -coded systems rely on rigid, pre -defined 

operators or static semantic mapping, requiring users to possess high proficiency in either proprietary GUI 

configurations or domain -specific programming. SGR -BIM a ddresses this by shifting the interpretive burden 

from the user to autonomous agents. Through an hybrid conversational and visual interface , practitioners can 

engage with the compliance process using natural language while monitoring the agents' reasoning. This 

dynamic, graph -driven alignment mechanism allows for the resolution of complex, multi -hop regulatory 

queries without the need for manual rule -encoding or extensive template preparation. 

Furthermore, the practical applicability of SGR -BIM is significantly enhanced by its focus on 

transparency. While proprietary commercial engines often operate as black boxes and complex scripts are 

difficult to audit, SGR -BIM provides traceable reasoning p aths. By documenting the logical alignment 

between specific regulatory clauses and IFC entities in a human -readable format, the framework enables 53 

human -in -the -loop verification. This ensures that automated decisions are verifiable by domain experts, 

bridging the trust gap that often hinders the adoption of AI -driven tools in professional workflows. From a 

deployment perspective, the API -integrated n ature of SGR -BIM offers a more scalable and flexible trajectory 

for integrating advanced reasoning capabilities into existing BIM environments, representing a n advancement 

over rigid, siloed traditional engines. 

5. Limitations and Future Work 

Despite the performance improvements, this study has several limitations that provide directions for 

future research. First, the comparative analysis reveals that a n enhanced -tool single agent already handles over 

75% of queries correctly, suggesting that the current multi -agent graph alignment provides diminishing returns 

for simpler tasks. Future work should investigate more efficient adaptive architectures that only trigger 

compl ex multi -agent coordination when high reasoning depth is detected. 

Second, the error analysis in Section 4.4 reveals that incomplete synthesis (42.2%) and faulty reasoning 

(24.4%) remain the primary failure modes. These discrepancies indicate that while the current graph -driven 

approach is effective, the system still enco unters challenges in aggregating highly dispersed regulatory clauses 

and maintaining logical consistency over extended reasoning sequences. To mitigate these issues, future 

research will prioritize knowledge graph refinement, focusing on increasing the sem antic granularity of nodes 

to better capture sub -clause dependencies and implicit geometric constraints within the code. Additionally, 

we will explore the optimization of memory mechanisms, such as implementing structured reasoning 

scratchpads or persisten t context buffers for the agents. These enhancements aim to ensure that intermediate 

reasoning states are accurately preserved and verified across multi -hop traversals, thereby reducing logical 

drift in complex compliance tasks. 

Third, the computational scalability of SGR -BIM to massive, high -density IFC models (e.g., high -rise 

healthcare facilities or complex industrial plants) requires further investigation. As the number of building 

entities and spatial relationships increases, the search space for graph alignment and the memory overhead for 

agentic coordination grow non -linearly. Subsequent studies will focus on developing hierarchical graph 54 

partitioning and spatial -semantic pre -indexing strategies to prune irrelevant sub -graphs and optimize traversal 

efficiency, ensuring the framework maintains high performance even as the building complexity scales to an 

industrial level. 

In summary, while SGR -BIM establishes a transparent and graph -driven paradigm for automated 

compliance check, bridging the gap to full industrial deployment requires an iterative refinement of reasoning 

robustness and system efficiency. By systematically a ddressing the identified limitations, we aim to transition 

the framework from a research prototype into a resilient, industry -grade engine for trustworthy compliance 

check system in the AEC industry. 

6. Conclusion 

This paper addresses the fundamental challenge of semantic interoperability in BIM -based automated 

compliance checking (ACC), specifically for geometry -intensive regulations that rely on complex spatial 

contexts. To overcome the limitations of rigid, template -based methods, this paper presented SGR -BIM 

(Spatial -Geometric Reasoning System for BIM) , which utilizes a dynamic cross -modal knowledge graph to 

autonomously align user intent with regulatory provisions and BIM geometry . This architecture supports 

transparent multi -hop reasoning and geometry -aware evaluation, transforming the checking process into an 

interpretable, interactive workflow. Validation on 679 queries demonstrates that SGR -BIM achieves 84.3% 

accuracy, representing an 8.6% improvement over enhanced -tool single -agent baselines . These findings 

underscore the value of graph -driven semantic alignment in handling intricate spatial constraints and provide 

an explainable foundation for digital design validation. 

From a broader perspective, these results indicate that the technical bottleneck in ACC is transitioning 

from basic data extraction to the complex orchestration of geometric and semantic logic. Practically, the SGR -

BIM framework provides a foundation for m ore interactive compliance tools, where architects can receive 

transparent reasoning paths rather than binary pass/fail results. This capability is particularly relevant for the 

early design stages, where real -time feedback on spatial constraints can signi ficantly reduce the need for late -

stage revisions and manual re -entry of occupant data. 55 

However, several limitations warrant further research. Currently, the multi -agent coordination 

provides diminishing returns for simpler tasks, suggesting that future iterations should incorporate adaptive 

architectures to optimize computational efficiency. Moreover, to address logical consistency in highly 

dispersed regulatory sections, future work will focus on increasing the semantic granularity of knowledge 

graphs and implementing structured memory mechanisms. Finally, investigating hierarchical graph 

pa rtitioning will be essential to ensure the scalability of this approach when applied to massive, high -density 

IFC models typical of industrial -scale projects. 56 

Acknowledgement 

The authors gratefully acknowledge the support provided by the Innovation and Technology Fund (Grant No. 

ITS/394/23FP) from the Innovation and Technology Support Program (ITSP) - Platform, Innovation and 

Technology Commission , HKSAR .57 

Declaration of Generative AI and AI -assisted technologies in the writing process 

Statement: During the preparation of this work the author(s) used ChatGPT -5.1 in order to improve readability 

and language. After using this tool/service, the author(s) reviewed and edited the content as needed and take(s) 

full responsibility for the content of the publication. 58 

Data Availability Statement 

The data supporting the findings of this study are provided within the article and its Appendices. Specifically, 

Appendices A, B, and C provide comprehensive details regarding prompt design for LLM -based agents, 

knowledge graph implementation, and the eval uation protocol. These materials offer sufficient 

methodological transparency to facilitate a thorough understanding of the framework's reasoning logic and 

the verification of the experimental approach . The underlying source code and the complete dataset will be 

made available upon reasonable request. 59 

References 

[1] F.S. Rahman, W.K. Tannous, G. Avsar, K.E. Agho, N. Ghassempour, L.A. Harvey, Economic Costs of 

Residential Fires: A Systematic Review, Fire 6 (2023) 399. https://doi.org/10.3390/fire6100399. 

[2] M. Manes, M.E. Houssami, R. Campbell, A. Sauca, D. Rush, A. Hofmann, P. Andersson, P. Wagner, 

S. Sokolov, J. Veeneklaas, M. Kobes, D. Oberhagemann, N. Rupp, G. Jomaas, F. Grone, P. Van Hees, 

E. Guillaume, Closing Data Gaps and Paving the Way for Pan -Europe an Fire Safety Efforts: Part I —

Overview of Current Practices for Fire Statistics, Fire Technol 59 (2023) 1925 –1968. 

https://doi.org/10.1007/s10694 -023 -01415 -6. 

[3] J. Peng, X. Liu, Automated code compliance checking research based on BIM and knowledge graph, 

Sci Rep 13 (2023) 7065. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598 -023 -34342 -1. 

[4] Karadeniz Technical University, B.A. Temel, H.B. Başağa, Investigation of IFC file format for BIM 

based automated code compliance checking, JCEMI 3 (2020) 113 –130. 

https://doi.org/10.31462/jcemi.2020.02113130. 

[5] R. Amor, J. Dimyadi, The promise of automated compliance checking, Developments in the Built 

Environment 5 (2021) 100039. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dibe.2020.100039. 

[6] J. -K. Lee, K. Cho, H. Choi, S. Choi, S. Kim, S.H. Cha, High -level implementable methods for 

automated building code compliance checking, Developments in the Built Environment 15 (2023) 

100174. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dibe.2023.100174. 

[7] A.S. Ismail, K.N. Ali, N.A. Iahad, M.A. Kassem, N.T. Al -Ashwal, BIM -Based Automated Code 

Compliance Checking System in Malaysian Fire Safety Regulations: A User -Friendly Approach, 

Buildings 13 (2023) 1404. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings13061404. 

[8] E. Nuyts, M. Bonduel, R. Verstraeten, Comparative analysis of approaches for automated compliance 

checking of construction data, Advanced Engineering Informatics 60 (2024) 102443. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2024.102443. 

[9] N. Chen, X. Lin, H. Jiang, Y. An, Automated Building Information Modeling Compliance Check 

through a Large Language Model Combined with Deep Learning and Ontology, Buildings 14 (2024) 

1983. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings14071983. 

[10] F. Yang, J. Zhang, Prompt -based automation of building code information transformation for 

compliance checking, Automation in Construction 168 (2024) 105817. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2024.105817. 

[11] J. Peng, X. Liu, Automated code compliance checking research based on BIM and knowledge graph, 

Sci Rep 13 (2023) 7065. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598 -023 -34342 -1. 

[12] M. Aydın, A Review of BIM -Based Automated Code Compliance Checking: A Meta -Analysis 

Research, in: E. P. Dadios (Ed.), Automation and Control - Theories and Applications, IntechOpen, 

2022. https://doi.org/10.5772/intechopen.101690. 

[13] A.S. Ismail, K.N. Ali, N.A. Iahad, A Review on BIM -based automated code compliance checking 

system, in: 2017 International Conference on Research and Innovation in Information Systems 

(ICRIIS), 2017: pp. 1 –6. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRIIS.2017.8002486. 

[14] L. Jia, M. Chen, C. Chen, Y. Jin, A Semantic Web and IFC -Based Framework for Automated BIM 

Compliance Checking, Buildings 15 (2025) 2633. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings15152633. 

[15] V. Heimsbakk, K. Torkelsen, Using the Shapes Constraint Language for modelling regulatory 

requirements, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.02723. 

[16] I. Fitkau, T. Hartmann, An ontology -based approach of automatic compliance checking for structural 

fire safety requirements, Advanced Engineering Informatics 59 (2024) 102314. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2023.102314. 

[17] C. Sydora, E. Stroulia, Rule -based compliance checking and generative design for building interiors 

using BIM, Automation in Construction 120 (2020) 103368. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103368. 60 

[18] P. Pauwels, E. Van Den Bersselaar, L. Verhelst, Validation of technical requirements for a BIM model 

using semantic web technologies, Advanced Engineering Informatics 60 (2024) 102426. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2024.102426. 

[19] B. Zhong, C. Gan, H. Luo, X. Xing, Ontology -based framework for building environmental monitoring 

and compliance checking under BIM environment, Building and Environment 141 (2018) 127 –142. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2018.05.046. 

[20] J. Zhu, N. Nisbet, M. Yin, R. Wei, I. Brilakis, Releasing the power of graph for building information 

discovery, Automation in Construction 172 (2025) 106034. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2025.106034. 

[21] L. Jiang, J. Shi, C. Wang, Multi -ontology fusion and rule development to facilitate automated code 

compliance checking using BIM and rule -based reasoning, Advanced Engineering Informatics 51 

(2022) 101449. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2021.101449. 

[22] Y. Wang, Y. Liu, H. Cai, J. Wang, X. Zhou, An Automated Fire Code Compliance Checking Jointly 

Using Building Information Models and Natural Language Processing, Fire 6 (2023) 358. 

https://doi.org/10.3390/fire6090358. 

[23] J. Zhang, N.M. El -Gohary, Semantic NLP -Based Information Extraction from Construction Regulatory 

Documents for Automated Compliance Checking, J. Comput. Civ. Eng. 30 (2016) 04015014. 

https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943 -5487.0000346. 

[24] Y. -C. Zhou, Z. Zheng, J. -R. Lin, X. -Z. Lu, Integrating NLP and context -free grammar for complex rule 

interpretation towards automated compliance checking, Computers in Industry 142 (2022) 103746. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2022.103746. 

[25] J. Zhang, N.M. El -Gohary, Integrating semantic NLP and logic reasoning into a unified system for 

fully -automated code checking, Automation in Construction 73 (2017) 45 –57. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.08.027. 

[26] Z. Kabzhan, A. Shakhnovich, S. Gorshkov, Y. Yemenov, F. Gorshkov, N. Shogelova, Semantic and 

ontology -based analysis of regulatory documents for construction industry digitalization, Front. Built 

Environ. 11 (2025) 1575913. https://doi.org/10.3389/fbuil.2 025.1575913. 

[27] S. Li, J. Wang, Z. Xu, Automated compliance checking for BIM models based on Chinese -NLP and 

knowledge graph: an integrative conceptual framework, Engineering, Construction and Architectural 

Management 32 (2025) 3832 –3856. https://doi.org/10.1108/ECAM -10 -2023 -1037. 

[28] O.A. Cejas, M.I. Azeem, S. Abualhaija, L.C. Briand, NLP -Based Automated Compliance Checking of 

Data Processing Agreements Against GDPR, IIEEE Trans. Software Eng. 49 (2023) 4282 –4303. 

https://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2023.3288901. 

[29] Z. Xiao, J. Qi, W. Xue, P. Zhong, Few -shot object detection with self -adaptive attention network for 

remote sensing images, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote 

Sensing 14 (2021) 4854 –4865. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTARS.2021.3078177. 

[30] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, B. Ichter, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. Le, D. Zhou, Chain -of -

Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models, (2023). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.11903. 

[31] S. Yao, D. Yu, J. Zhao, I. Shafran, T.L. Griffiths, Y. Cao, K. Narasimhan, Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate 

Problem Solving with Large Language Models, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.10601. 

[32] M. Besta, N. Blach, A. Kubicek, R. Gerstenberger, M. Podstawski, L. Gianinazzi, J. Gajda, T. 

Lehmann, H. Niewiadomski, P. Nyczyk, T. Hoefler, Graph of Thoughts: Solving Elaborate Problems 

with Large Language Models, (2024). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v3 8i16.29720. 

[33] X. Wang, J. Wei, D. Schuurmans, Q. Le, E. Chi, S. Narang, A. Chowdhery, D. Zhou, Self -Consistency 

Improves Chain of Thought Reasoning in Language Models, (2023). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.11171. 

[34] Y. Weng, M. Zhu, F. Xia, B. Li, S. He, S. Liu, B. Sun, K. Liu, J. Zhao, Large Language Models are 

Better Reasoners with Self -Verification, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2212.09561. 61 

[35] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, Y. Cao, ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and 

Acting in Language Models, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2210.03629. 

[36] Z. Xiao, J. Ma, LLM agent framework for intelligent change analysis in urban environment using 

remote sensing imagery, Automation in Construction 177 (2025) 106341. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2025.106341. 

[37] Z. Xiao, J. Ma, S. Zhang, MMUEChange: A Generalized LLM Agent Framework for Intelligent Multi -

Modal Urban Environment Change Analysis, Applied Soft Computing 190 (2026) 114576. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2026.114576. 

[38] T. Kojima, S.S. Gu, M. Reid, Y. Matsuo, Y. Iwasawa, Large Language Models are Zero -Shot 

Reasoners, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2205.11916. 

[39] J. Chen, H. Guo, K. Yi, B. Li, M. Elhoseiny, VisualGPT: Data -efficient Adaptation of Pretrained 

Language Models for Image Captioning, in: 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and 

Pattern Recognition (CVPR), IEEE, New Orleans, LA, USA, 2022: pp. 180 09 –18019. 

https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.01750. 

[40] G. Li, H.A.A.K. Hammoud, H. Itani, D. Khizbullin, B. Ghanem, CAMEL: Communicative Agents for 

“Mind” Exploration of Large Language Model Society, (2023). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.17760. 

[41] Q. Wu, G. Bansal, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, B. Li, E. Zhu, L. Jiang, X. Zhang, S. Zhang, J. Liu, A.H. 

Awadallah, R.W. White, D. Burger, C. Wang, AutoGen: Enabling Next -Gen LLM Applications via 

Multi -Agent Conversation, (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.0 8155. 

[42] S. Hong, M. Zhuge, J. Chen, X. Zheng, Y. Cheng, C. Zhang, J. Wang, Z. Wang, S.K.S. Yau, Z. Lin, L. 

Zhou, C. Ran, L. Xiao, C. Wu, J. Schmidhuber, MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi -Agent 

Collaborative Framework, (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.23 08.00352. 

[43] W. Chen, Y. Su, J. Zuo, C. Yang, C. Yuan, C. -M. Chan, H. Yu, Y. Lu, Y. -H. Hung, C. Qian, Y. Qin, 

X. Cong, R. Xie, Z. Liu, M. Sun, J. Zhou, AgentVerse: Facilitating Multi -Agent Collaboration and 

Exploring Emergent Behaviors, (2023). https://doi.org/10.4855 0/arXiv.2308.10848. 

[44] G. Wang, Y. Xie, Y. Jiang, A. Mandlekar, C. Xiao, Y. Zhu, L. Fan, A. Anandkumar, Voyager: An 

Open -Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language Models, (2023). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.16291. 

[45] C. Qian, W. Liu, H. Liu, N. Chen, Y. Dang, J. Li, C. Yang, W. Chen, Y. Su, X. Cong, J. Xu, D. Li, Z. 

Liu, M. Sun, ChatDev: Communicative Agents for Software Development, (2024). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.07924. 

[46] S. Hellin, S. Nousias, A. Borrmann, Natural Language Information Retrieval from BIM Models: An 

LLM -Based Multi -Agent System Approach, in: Proceedings of the 2025 European Conference on 

Computing in Construction, European Council on Computing in Constructi on, Porto, Portugal, 2025. 

https://doi.org/10.35490/EC3.2025.265. 

[47] J. Zheng, M. Fischer, Dynamic prompt -based virtual assistant framework for BIM information search, 

Automation in Construction 155 (2023) 105067. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2023.105067 .

[48] Z. Deng, C. Du, S. Nousias, A. Borrmann, BIMgent: Towards Autonomous Building Modeling via 

Computer -use Agents, (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.07217. 

[49] Y. Dong, Z. Zhan, Y. Hu, D.M. Doe, Z. Han, AI BIM coordinator for non -expert interaction in 

building design using LLM -driven multi -agent systems, Automation in Construction 180 (2025) 

106563. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2025.106563. 

[50] G.N. Lilis, M. Wang, K. Katsigarakis, D. Mavrokapnidis, I. Korolija, R. Dimitrios, BIM -based 

semantic enrichment and knowledge graph generation via geometric relation checking, Automation in 

Construction 173 (2025) 106081. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2025.106081. 

[51] V. de L. Castrillo, H.K. Gidey, A. Lenz, A. Knoll, Fundamentals of Building Autonomous LLM 

Agents, (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.09244. 62 

[52] C. Du, Z. Deng, S. Nousias, A. Borrmann, Predictive Modeling: BIM Command Recommendation 

Based on Large -scale Usage Logs, Advanced Engineering Informatics 68 (2025) 103574. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2025.103574. 

[53] S. Madireddy, L. Gao, Z. Din, K. Kim, A. Senouci, Z. Han, Y. Zhang, Large Language Model -Driven 

Code Compliance Checking in Building Information Modeling, (2025). 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.20551. 

[54] A. Erfani, H. Khanjar, Large Language Models for Construction Risk Classification: A Comparative 

Study, Buildings 15 (2025) 3379. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings15183379. 

[55] P. Guo, H. Xue, J. Ma, J.C.P. Cheng, Advancing BIM information retrieval with an LLM -based query -

domain -specific language and library code function alignment system, Automation in Construction 178 

(2025) 106374. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2025.10637 4. 

[56] Z. Ma, H. Zhu, X. Xiang, Ž. Turk, R. Klinc, Automatic compliance checking of BIM models against 

quality standards based on ontology technology, Automation in Construction 166 (2024) 105656. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2024.105656. 

[57] C. Li, S. Lu, M. Wang, Y. Hu, Overview of Large Language Models in Construction Industry 

Applications, in: Proceedings of the 2025 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and 

Computational Intelligence, ACM, Kuala Lumpur Malaysia, 2025: pp. 29 8–302. 

https://doi.org/10.1145/3730436.3730486. 

[58] S. Iranmanesh, H. Saadany, E. Vakaj, LLM -assisted Graph -RAG Information Extraction from IFC 

Data, in: Proceedings of the 2025 European Conference on Computing in Construction, European 

Council on Computing in Construction, Porto, Portugal, 2025. https://d oi.org/10.35490/EC3.2025.366. 

[59] DeepSeek -AI, A. Liu, B. Feng, B. Xue, B. Wang, B. Wu, C. Lu, et al, DeepSeek -V3 Technical Report, 

(2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.19437. 

[60] OpenAI, A. Hurst, A. Lerer, A.P. Goucher, A. Perelman, A. Ramesh, A. Clark, et al, GPT -4o System 

Card, (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.21276. 63 

Appendix A. Implementation Details and Prompt Design for LLM -based Agents 

This appendix provides detailed technical specifications of the LLM -based agents in the proposed 

SGR -BIM framework, including their implementation architecture, tool design, and prompt engineering 

strategies. 

The SGR -BIM framework is implemented using the LangGraph library (https://github.com/langchain -

ai/langgraph ), which enables the construction of stateful, multi -agent workflows with explicit control over 

execution flow, memory, and iterative reasoning. The execution follows an iterative loop, where the Analysis 

Agent dynamically determines the next action (rule retrieval, IFC query, or termination), enabling adaptive 

multi -hop reasoning. 

Each agent is implemented as a combination of a prompt template, which defines its role and reasoning 

behavior. For agents that require access to external information sources, additional too ls are integrated to 

enable structured data retrieval (e.g., regulatory document search and IFC model querying). The prompt for 

all the agent s is designed to follow four main principles: defining a clear role for a specific task, specifying 

the descriptions of the task, providing examples to complete the task , and constrain ing t he output format to 

ensure consistency for downstream processing .

A.1. User Intent Analysis Agent 

The User Intent Analysis Agent is responsible for interpreting the user’s natural language query and 

transforming it into a structured intent representation that can be processed within the semantic graph. 

Specifically, this agent identifies the target bui lding element, the relevant compliance attributes, and any 

implicit constraints that are not explicitly stated in the query. This step establishes the initial query node in the 

graph and provides the foundation for subsequent cross -modal reasoning.  

> INTENT_ AGENT_ SYSTEM_PROMPT = """
> You are a professional BIM query intent interpreter.
> Your job is to convert the user's natural language question into a structured JSON object that describes the intent.
> The JSON must contain exactly these fields:
> 1. "task_type": (string, required)
> -Allowed values:

64 

• "query_model" – Questions about the BIM model itself (no reference to rules). 

• "query_rule" – Questions about code/rule requirements in general (not tied to a specific element). 

• "query_rule_requirement" – Questions asking what code/rule requirements apply to a specific element in the 

model. 

• "check" – Questions about whether a specific element complies with rules. 

2. "target_entity": (string or list of strings, required) 

- One or more of: "stair", "door", "room", "building", "floor", "seat", "bed", "fire compartment" 

- Example: ["door","room"] 

3. "attributes": (list of strings, required) 

- One or more of: "area", "width", "total_width", "count", "class", "discharge_value", "occupant_capacity" 

- Example: ["count","total_width"] 

4. "context": (object or null, optional) 

- Spatial or semantic qualifiers. May include: 

• "floor": "2F" 

• "building_type": "3a. Health/child care facilities" 

• "room_id": "<GUID of an IfcSpace>" 

• "zone_id": "<GUID of an IfcZone>" 

- Example: { "floor":"2F"} 

- If none apply, use null 

- Do not invent missing details. If context is insufficient, simply set this field to null and leave further inference to 

downstream agents. 

### ID Extraction and Typing (REQUIRED) 

- Extract any explicit IDs (e.g., GUIDs) mentioned by the user. 

- Determine the correct ID type based on the wording around the ID: 

• Phrases like "this door", "Door D -102", or "door GUID ..." → use "door_id". 

• Phrases like "this room/space", "Room A -101", or "space GUID ..." → use "room_id". 

• Phrases like "this fire compartment/zone" → use "zone_id". 

• Phrases like "this stair" → use "stair_id". 

- If the question references one entity via another (e.g., "the room containing this door"), still assign the provided 

ID to its correct key (e.g., put the door GUID into "door_id"). Do not introduce intermediate relation hints; just type 

the provided ID c orrectly. 

- If more than one ID is provided, include each under the appropriate key. 

- If you cannot confidently determine the entity type of an ID, do not guess; set "context" to null. 

### ID Field Conventions 

- When the user refers to a room/space, always use **room_id** and pass the GUID of an **IfcSpace**. 

- When the user refers to a fire compartment/zone, always use **zone_id** and pass the GUID of an **IfcZone**. 65 

- Never pass a zone GUID where a room_id is expected, and never pass a room GUID where a zone_id is expected. 

### Tool for Use Classification 

When the user refers to a building type in plain language (for example, "6 -storey flat" or "3 -storey villa") and no 

code is provided, you should call: 

`read_csv_table("Use Classification")` 

to load the entire Use Classification table. Then inspect its rows to determine which Sub -category (e.g. "1b. Flats", 

"1a. House type dwellings") best matches the user's description, and set that code as: 

`"context": { "building_type": "<matched Sub -category>" }` 

Return only valid JSON (no markdown, no explanation). 

Do not add extra text, commentary, or guesses. If information is missing, output JSON with context=null. 

### Examples 

**1. query_model** 

User: “How many floors are in the building?” 

```json 

{

"task_type": "query_model", 

"target_entity": ["floor"], 

"attributes": ["count"], 

"context": null 

}

**2. query_rule** 

User: “What is the maximum fire compartment area for a 4‑storey flat?” 

{

"task_type": "query_rule", 

"target_entity": ["fire compartment"], 

"attributes": ["area"], 

"context": {"building_type":"1b Flats"} 

}

**3. query_rule_calc** 

User: “According to the code, how many exits does this room require?” 

{

"task_type": "query_rule_calc", 

"target_entity": ["door","room"], 

"attributes": ["count"], 66 

"context": { "room_id":"Room A‑101" } 

}

**4. check** 

User: “Is this door wide enough?” 

{

"task_type": "check", 

"target_entity": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { "door_id":"Door D‑102" } 

}

Now, given a new user query, output exactly the JSON intent. 

""" 

A. 2. Rule Query Agent 

The Rule Query Agent is responsible for retrieving relevant regulatory information from regolatory 

codes, including both narrative provisions and structured tabular data. Given a query generated during the 

reasoning process, the agent identifies and returns the most relevant clauses, thresholds, and conditional 

requirements needed for compliance evalua tion. 

RULE_ AGENT_ SYSTEM_PROMPT = """ 

You are an expert in **spatial and geometric fire code rules**. 

Your job is to identify and extract relevant fire safety rules that are **specifically related to building geometry and 

spatial configuration**, such as: 

- occupant capacity (based on area and use classification) 

- exit requirements (number and total width of doors) 

- staircase discharge values 

- fire compartments and area limits 

You can read and extract information from these files using available tools: 

• read_csv(file_name) – extract structured rules 

• read_txt(file_name) – read paragraphs 

You should use these tools implicitly to find applicable rules, and include relevant snippets as evidence in your rule 

outputs. 

You will receive a JSON object that includes: 67 

- `"instruction"`: the user's original query in natural language 

- `"task_spec"`: a structured specification of the query, with fields: 

- `entities`: list of entities (e.g., "door", "stair") 

- `attributes`: list of requested attributes (e.g., "count", "width") 

- `context`: dictionary of supporting conditions (e.g., room_area, building_type) 

Always rely on the `"task_spec"` field when deciding which rules to extract. 

Use `"instruction"` only as additional context. 

Your task: 

From the fire code CSV or TXT files available, extract all geometry -based rules relevant to the taks_spec. 

Your response must always be a JSON object with this structure: 

```json 

{

"status": "success" | "failure" | "need_more_info", 

"message": "Short explanation of the result", 

"rules": [ 

{

"rule_id": "short_identifier", 

"target_entity": "element it applies to", 

"attribute": "property it governs", 

"description": "Plain language explanation", 

"requires": ["list of required inputs"], 

"calculation": "how to apply or check the rule", 

"source": { 

"file": "filename.csv or .txt", 

"type": "csv/txt", 

"raw_snippet": "exact excerpt from source" 

}

}

]

}

Examples: 

**Example 1:** 68 

Input: 

{

"instruction": "What is the maximum fire compartment area for a 4 -storey flat?", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["room"], 

"attributes": ["area"], 

"context": { 

"building_type": "1b Flats", 

"is_fire_compartment": true 

}

}

}

Output: 

{

"status": "success", 

"message": "Found rules for fire compartment area in a 1b flat.", 

"rules": [ 

{

"rule_id": "compartment_area_flat", 

"target_entity": "room", 

"attribute": "area", 

"description": "The maximum area for a fire compartment in a 1b flat is not limited.", 

"requires": [], 

"calculation": "Not applicable", 

"source": { 

"file": "Fire Compartment Limitations.csv", 

"type": "csv", 

"raw_snippet": "1. Residential (1a. House type dwellings, 1b. Flats, 1c. Tenement houses) | Not limited" 

}

}

]

}

**Example 2: ** 

Input: 69 

{

"instruction": "According to the code, how many exits does Room A -101 require?", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["door", "room"], 

"attributes": ["count"], 

"context": { 

"room_id": "Room A -101" 

}

}

}

Output: 

{ "status": "need_more_info", 

"message": "To determine the required number of exits, additional information is needed: the room area and the 

building type of Room A -101.", 

"rules": [ 

{

"rule_id": "required_exit_doors_by_occupant", 

"target_entity": "door", 

"attribute": "count", 

"description": "The minimum number of exit doors required depends on the occupant capacity of the room.", 

"requires": ["occupant_capacity"], 

"calculation": "required_doors = lookup(occupant_capacity)", 

"source": { 

"file": "Minimum number and width of exit doors.csv", 

"type": "csv", 

"raw_snippet": "For example: 51 –100 occupants → 2 doors" 

}

}, 

{

"rule_id": "occupant_calc_healthcare_ward", 

"target_entity": "room", 

"attribute": "occupant_capacity", 

"description": "The occupant capacity is determined by dividing room area by the occupancy factor, based on 

building type.", 

"requires": ["room_area", "building_type"], 70 

"calculation": "occupant_capacity = room_area / occupancy_factor, occupancy_factor = lookup(building type)", 

"source": { 

"file": "Assessment of Occupant Capacity.csv", 

"type": "csv", 

"raw_snippet": "For example: Use: 4a Offices, Type: fixed, m²/person: 9" 

}

}

]

}

**Example 3: ** 

Input: 

{

"instruction": "Is Door D -102 wide enough?", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { 

"door_id": "Door D -102" 

}

}

}

Output: 

{ "status": "need_more_info", 

"message": "To determine the required number of exits, additional information is needed: the room area and the 

building type of Room A -101.", 

"rules": [ 

{

"rule_id": "min_exit_width_by_occupant", 

"target_entity": "door", 

"attribute": "width", 

"description": "The total exit width required is based on occupant capacity. The actual door width must be no 

less than the required total width.", 

"requires": ["width", "occupant_capacity"], 

"calculation": "check: width >= lookup(occupant_capacity)", 

"source": { 

"file": "Minimum number and width of exit doors.csv", 71 

"type": "csv", 

"raw_snippet": "51 –100 occupants → required width: 1500 mm" 

}

}, 

{

"rule_id": "occupant_calc_office_room", 

"target_entity": "room", 

"attribute": "occupant_capacity", 

"description": "The occupant capacity is determined by dividing room area by the occupancy factor, based on 

building type.", 

"requires": ["room_area", "building_type"], 

"calculation": "occupant_capacity = room_area / occupancy_factor, occupancy_factor = lookup(building type)", 

"source": { 

"file": "Assessment of Occupant Capacity.csv", 

"type": "csv", 

"raw_snippet": "Use: 4a Offices, Type: fixed, m²/person: 9" 

}

}

]

}

Return only a JSON object. Do not include Markdown or explanations. 

""" 

The Rule Query Agent relies on a set of structured retrieval functions to access regulatory content from 

different sources. Available tools include read_csv(file_name) to extract structured rules from tables and 

read_txt(file_name) to read textual paragrap hs. These functions provide standardized outputs that can be 

directly integrated into the semantic graph. This tool design enables the agent to retrieve both explicit rules 

and related dependent clauses required for multi -hop reasoning. 

A. 3. IFC Query Agent 72 

The IFC Query Agent is responsible for retrieving geometric information from the BIM model encoded 

in IFC format. This agent focuses on extracting semantically meaningful attributes, such as dimensions, areas, 

and spatial relationships. 

IFC_AGENT_SYSTEM_PROMPT = """ 

You are an assistant that extracts spatial and geometric information from building IFC models. 

You will receive a JSON object that includes: 

- `"instruction"`: the user's original query in natural language 

- `"task_spec"`: a structured specification of the query, with fields: 

- `entities`: list of entities (e.g., "door", "stair") 

- `attributes`: list of requested attributes (e.g., "count", "width") 

- `context`: dictionary of supporting conditions (e.g., room_area, building_type) 

Your job: 

- Select the correct tool(s) to fulfill the user intent 

- Use them implicitly (you do not need to call them manually) 

- Extract structured information from the IFC model 

You have access to the following tools for extraction: 

• get_storey_count() – Get the total number of storeys in the building 

• get_rooms_per_floor() – Get the number of rooms per floor (sorted by elevation) 

• get_space_count() – Get the total number of spaces (rooms) 

• get_door_count() – Get the total number of doors 

• get_stair_count() – Get the total number of stairs 

• get_building_category() – Get the building classification and usage type 

• get_room_dimensions(room_id=None) – Get the length and width of rooms (IfcSpace). 

- If a room_id (GUID of an IfcSpace) is provided, returns the dimensions of that room only. 

- If no room_id is provided, returns the dimensions of all rooms. 

- Accepts only IfcSpace GUIDs. Do NOT pass an IfcZone GUID here. 

• get_fire_compartment_dimensions(zone_id=None) – Get the dimensions of fire compartments (IfcZone) and the 

rooms they contain. 

- If a fire_compartment_id or zone_id (GUID of an IfcZone) is provided, returns that compartment and its 

included rooms with their dimensions. 

- If no fire_compartment_id or zone_id is provided, returns all fire compartments and their included rooms. 73 

- Accepts only IfcZone GUIDs. Do NOT pass an IfcSpace GUID here. 

• get_room_door_info(room_id=None, door_id=None) – Retrieve door information associated with rooms. 

- If no parameters: return all rooms with their connected doors. 

- If room_id: return that room and its doors. 

- If door_id: return the room(s) that contain this door. 

- If both: return only if the door belongs to the specified room. 

Output: list of {room_name, room_id, door_count, doors[{name, id, width}]} 

• get_all_door_widths(id=None) – Get all door widths in the building or a specific door 

• get_stair_widths(id=None) – Get width of all or specific stair(s) 

• get_stair_serving_levels(id=None) – Get the number of floors a stair serves 

• get_stair_served_area(id=None) – Get total space area served by the stair 

• get_stair_accessible_rooms_and_fire_compartments(stair_id=None) – Get the rooms that a stair can actually 

access and whether they are fire compartments (or all stairs if no id is specified) 

You should interpret the query and select the most appropriate tool. Return JSON results with clear field names and 

units when available. If the query refers to a specific object, use its name or ID to filter if supported by the tool. 

Output Format: 

Return a JSON object with a `result` field. Example structure: 

```json 

{

"result": { 

"key1": value1, 

"key2": value2, 

... 

}

}

Always return a single result object, never a list. 

If a specific identifier is used (e.g., stair_id, room_id), include it in the output for clarity. 

If no result is found, return: 

{

"result": null 

}

Do not return markdown, text explanations, or additional commentary — only valid JSON. 

Examples: 74 

Example 1: Room door info 

Input: 

{

"instruction": "How many doors does Room A -101 have, and how wide are they?", 

"task_spec": { 

"target_entity": ["room", "door"], 

"attributes": ["count", "width"], 

"context": { "room_id": "A -101" } 

}

}

Output: 

{

"result": { 

"room_id": "A -101", 

"door_count": 2, 

"doors": [ 

{ "name": "Door 1", "width": 0.9 }, 

{ "name": "Door 2", "width": 1.2 } 

]

}

}

Example 2: Stair service area 

Input: 

{

"instruction": "How much area does Staircase S -3 serve?", 

"task_spec": { 

"target_entity": ["stair"], 

"attributes": ["served_area"], 

"context": { "stair_id": "S -3" } 

}

}

Output: 

{75 

"result": { 

"stair_id": "S -3", 

"served_area": 456.2 

}

}

Example 3: Room dimensions 

Input: 

{

"instruction": "What is the size of Room 302?", 

"task_spec": { 

"target_entity": ["room"], 

"attributes": ["dimensions"], 

"context": { "room_id": "302" } 

}

}

Output: 

{

"result": { 

"room_id": "302", 

"length": 7.2, 

"width": 4.6 

}

}

Instructions: 

Use the intent fields to determine the right tool(s) 

Filter using context when available (e.g. room_id, stair_id) 

Return only JSON that matches the output format 

""" 

The IFC Query Agent is supported by a suite of extraction functions that access semantic attributes 

and spatial relationships within the BIM model. These include tools such as get_room_dimensions(room_id) 

and get_room_door_info(room_id, door_id) for retrie ving dimensional and connectivity information. The 76 

outputs are structured in a normalized format that facilitates integration into the semantic graph. This design 

supports multi -hop reasoning across IFC entities by allowing iterative and targeted queries for dependent 

elements. 

A. 4. Analysis Agent 

The Analysis Agent functions as the central reasoning and orchestration component of the framework. 

It evaluates the current state of the semantic graph, determines whether sufficient information has been 

collected, and decides the next action in the iter ative process. This includes requesting additional regulatory 

information, querying the BIM model, or terminating the process when the graph is deemed complete for 

compliance evaluation. 

GRAPH_ANALYSIS_AGENT_SYSTEM_PROMPT = """ 

You are the GRAPH ANALYSIS AGENT in a graph -driven multi -agent system. 

You are the **reasoning core**: at each step, you compare the original user query with the 

current reasoning history and the partially constructed graph, in order to decide: 

- What information is still missing? 

- Which agent must be called next (IFC Agent or Rule Agent)? 

- How to update the knowledge graph with new nodes, edges, and attributes. 

---

### INPUTS YOU MAY RECEIVE: 

1. **Intent Agent output**: 

{

"intent": { 

"task_type": "query_model" | "query_rule" | "query_rule_requirement" | "check", 

"target_entity": [...], 

"attributes": [...], 

"context": {...} 

}

}

2. **IFC Agent output** (from building model): 

{

"result": { ... } # Model lookup result 

}77 

3. **Rule Agent output** (from fire/building code rules): 

{

"status": "success" | "failure" | "need_more_info", 

"message": "...", 

"rules": [ ... ] 

}

---

### YOUR TASK: 

1. Always keep the **original user query** in mind. 

2. Based on intent and current graph state, decide: 

- What missing information is required? 

- Which agent should be consulted next (`toifc` or `torule`)? 

- Or whether the query is already answered (`completed`). 

3. Specify how the knowledge graph should be updated: 

- **new_nodes** (with type and attributes if known). 

- **new_edges** (relations between entities). 

- **missing_info** (still -needed attributes). 

---

### OUTPUT FORMAT: 

Always output a JSON object: 

{

"instruction": "...", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": [...], 

"attributes": [...], 

"context": {...} 

}, 

"status": "toifc" | "torule" | "completed", 

"graph_update": { 

"new_nodes": [ 

{"id": "", "type": "", "attrs": {}} 

], 

"new_edges": [ 

{"from":"","to":"","relation":""} 78 

], 

"missing_info": ["",""] 

}

}

---

### EXAMPLES: 

**Example 1 (query_model):** 

Input: 

{

"user_query": "What is the width of Door D -102?", 

"intent": { 

"task_type": "query_model", 

"target_entity": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { "door_id": "D -102" } 

}

}

Output: 

{

"instruction": "Retrieve the width of Door D -102 from the IFC model.", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { "door_id": "D -102" } 

}, 

"status": "toifc", 

"graph_update": { 

"new_nodes": [{ "id":"door:D -102", "type":"Door", "attrs":{} }], 

"new_edges": [], 

"missing_info": [] 

}

}

---

**Example 2 (query_rule_requirement):** 79 

Input: 

{

"user_query": "How many exit doors does Room A -101 need?", 

"intent": { 

"task_type": "query_rule_requirement", 

"target_entity": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["count"], 

"context": { "room_id": "A -101" } 

}

}

Output: 

{

"instruction": "Check rules for exit door requirements; identify required attributes like occupant_capacity.", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["door","room"], 

"attributes": ["count"], 

"context": { "room_id": "A -101" } 

}, 

"status": "torule", 

"graph_update": { 

"new_nodes": [{ "id":"room:A -101", "type":"Room", "attrs":{} }], 

"new_edges": [], 

"missing_info": ["occupant_capacity","building_type"] 

}

}

---

**Example 3 (check):** 

Input: 

{

"user_query": "Is Door D -102 wide enough according to the fire code?", 

"intent": { 

"task_type": "check", 

"target_entity": ["door"], 80 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { "door_id": "D -102" } 

}

}

Output: 

{

"instruction": "Check the fire code to determine the minimum width requirement for exit doors.", 

"task_spec": { 

"entities": ["door"], 

"attributes": ["width"], 

"context": { "door_id": "D -102" } 

}, 

"status": "torule", 

"graph_update": { 

"new_nodes": [{ "id":"door:D -102", "type":"Door", "attrs":{} }], 

"new_edges": [], 

"missing_info": ["required_width"] 

}

}

---

Remember: 

- Do not repeat full history in the output. 

- Use history internally to judge what has been answered already. 

""" 

A. 5. Response Generation Agent 

The Response Generation Agent is responsible for producing the final compliance assessment based 

on the fully constructed semantic graph. It generates both the evaluation result and an interpretable explanation 

by tracing the reasoning path that connects t he user query, the relevant BIM entities, and the applicable 

regulatory provisions. 

GRAPH_RESPONSE_ AGENT_ SYSTEM_PROMPT = """ 

You are the Response Generation Agent in a graph -driven multi -agent system. 81 

Your job is to provide a clear, natural -language answer to the user’s query, 

based primarily on the **knowledge graph** built during reasoning, 

and an optional concise **explanation** (reasoning path) based on the knowledge graph. 

---

### INPUTS YOU RECEIVE: 

- user_query: The original natural language question. 

- graph: The final knowledge graph, with nodes (entities, rules, model data) and edges (relations). 

- history: The multi -turn reasoning trace (for supplementary context). 

- need_explanation: A boolean flag (true/false) indicating whether the user wants an explanation. 

---

### YOUR TASK: 

1. Read the **graph** and find the nodes, attributes, and edges most relevant to the user_query. 

2. Summarize the reasoning path implied by the graph. 

3. Produce a clear and user -friendly answer in natural language. 

4. If `need_explanation=true`: 

- Also provide an **Explanation** section that summarizes the reasoning path: 

- What entity/attribute was checked (e.g. a door’s width). 

- What rules applied. 

- What IFC/model data was retrieved. 

- How these were connected in the graph. 

- Keep it short, step -by -step, and natural. 

5. Only use `history` to clarify reasoning steps if absolutely necessary; prefer the graph. 

6. Do not expose raw JSON, node IDs, or intermediate logs. 

7. If the graph is incomplete (missing critical nodes/edges), explicitly say what info is missing and suggest the next 

step. 

---

### OUTPUT STYLE: 

- Concise and helpful 

- Directly tied to the user query 

- If needed, ground the explanation in relationships (entity → rule → compliance) 

---82     

> ### OUTPUT FORMAT:
> Always return a valid JSON object with these fields:
> {
> "answer": "<direct conclusion, natural language>",
> "explanation": "<reasoning path, or null if not required>"
> }
> Remember:
> -`answer`: concise and natural language output
> -`explanation`: only filled if `need_explanation=true`, otherwise null
> -Use the graph as the authoritative source of truth.
> -Do not include any other text outside the JSON.
> """

Appendix B. Knowledge Graph Implementation and Updat e Details 

The knowledge graph in SGR -BIM is implemented as a dynamic, directed multi -graph using the 

Python library Network X ( https://pypi.org/project/networkx/ ). This design allows multiple edges between 

nodes to represent diverse semantic and spatial relationships simultaneously. The graph maintains a limited 

set of node types, including Query, Element (such as Door, Room, Stair, Building ), Rule, and Generic, while 

edges are labeled with custom relation attributes by the Analysis Agent that capture semantic, topological, or 

latent links among entities. There are no fixed restrictions on the number of edges per node, as the graph is 

intended to dynamically expand to accommodate multi -hop reasoning and cross -modal information 

integration. 

Graph nodes and edges are updated iteratively by the Analysis Agent. Each agent interacts with 

domain -specific tools (e.g., the Rule Query and IFC Query Agents) to extract relevant information from 

regulatory codes or BIM models. The outputs from these tools are not simply arbitrary JSON objects . They 

follow a carefully designed structured format, tailored for each agent, that ensures all relevant semantic and 

spatial information can be correctly integrated into the knowledge graph. Upon receiving this stru ctured data, 83 

the Analysis Agent applies controlled update methods to insert new nodes, modify existing node attributes, or 

add edges representing semantic or topological relationships among entities. Deletion of nodes or edges is 

currently not implemented, as the graph primarily accumulates information to support multi -hop reasoning .

This design ensures that all intermediate entities relevant to the compliance check are preserved for 

interpretability and transparency. 

The correctness of the graph schema is enforced through controlled interfaces. Nodes are only allowed 

to adopt the predefined categories, and the update methods guarantee that attributes are merged consistently 

if a node already exists. The relation types are not restricted to a predefined ontology . Instead, they are 

generated dynamically by the Analysis Agent based on task requirements and available information . By 

maintaining this controlled but flexible structure, the knowledge graph supports dynamic int egration of 

heterogeneous information while minimizing the risk of introducing incorrect nodes or edges. 

Although the SGR -BIM agents operate over natural language and structured BIM data, the use of a 

graph -based representation is essential. Unlike unstructured textual reasoning, the graph provides a structured, 

modality -aware environment that captures the re lationships among queries, regulatory rules, and BIM 

elements. This structure enables the system to execute multi -hop reasoning, resolve latent dependencies across 

entities, and generate interpretable reasoning traces that can be reviewed by users, support ing explainability 

and interactive validation of compliance checks. The multi -hop reasoning process is primarily realized during 

the iterative graph construction stage, where dependencies are progressively expanded and resolved. The 

Response Generation Agent operates on the final graph representation to extract and organiz e the reasoning 

path, rather than performing explicit graph search algorithms such as DFS. 

Finally, the termination condition in Algorithm 1 is governed by the Analysis Agent’s evaluation of 

the graph state . Based on the current intent, accumulated graph information, and interaction history, the agent 

determines whether additional information is required from the Rule or IFC query agents or whether the 

compliance question has been fully answered. No explicit confidence threshold is used . Instead, this decision 84 

is guided by the prompt instructions embedded in the agent design, which specify how to assess missing 

information and manage iterative graph expansion. 

Appendix C. Protocol for LLM -Assisted Evaluation 

To ensure a reproducible and unbiased assessment of non -accuracy metrics (Coherence, Relevance, 

and Explainability), we employed DeepSeek -3.2 as the independent LLM judge. The temperature was set to 

0 to minimize stochasticity and ensure consistent scoring . The evaluation followed an absolute scoring 

protocol, where each response was evaluated independently against a predefined rubric. 

To prevent potential evaluator bias, the process was conducted as a blind study . All model identities 

(e.g., SGR -BIM, Baseline names) were removed from the prompts provided to the judge. Each metric was 

originally scored on a discrete scale of 0 to 3 (0: Poor, 1: Fair, 2: Good, 3: Excellent) based on specific criteria. 

To maintain consistency with other normalized metrics in this study, these raw scores ( 𝑆 +:= ) were 

subsequently mapped to a 0 –1 range using the following normalization: 

𝑆 %0+#:62>,? = 𝑆 +:= 

3 (25) 

The specific prompts and rubrics used for this evaluation are provided below:       

> EVAL_PROMPT ="""
> You are an evaluator for BIM -based fire code Q&A.
> Your task is to judge the quality of an answer along three dimensions: ** Coherence , Relevance, Explainability**.
> You must ONLY use the information provided in the inputs below.
> Different dimensions rely on different subsets of inputs:
> -** Coherence **: Evaluate ONLY the **Answer** (and Explanation if provided).
> -**Relevance**: Evaluate using the **Question + Answer**.
> -**Explainability**: Evaluate using **Question + Answer + Explanation** (if Explanation is absent, judge only on
> Question + Answer).
> ---

85 

### Scoring Rubric 

1. **Coherence (0 –3)** 

- 3 = Fully natural human -like expression, no unnatural references, no GUID/random strings, units properly 

formatted, examples provided when multiple cases apply, overall fluent and readable. 

- 2 = Mostly natural, minor unnatural phrasing or small unit/display issues, still easy to understand. 

- 1 = Somewhat unnatural, noticeable machine -like or awkward phrasing, missing examples, readability issues. 

- 0 = Very unnatural, full of GUIDs or random strings, unreadable units, confusing structure. 

2. **Relevance (0 –3)** 

- 3 = Directly addresses the question, covers the key point(s) fully. 

- 2 = Addresses the question but misses part of the core content or adds some irrelevant detail. 

- 1 = Weakly addresses the question, mostly background with little direct response. 

- 0 = Not relevant, does not answer the question at all. 

3. **Explainability & Reasoning (0 –3)** 

- 3 = Provides a clear reasoning chain from BIM attributes → fire code rules → conclusion, transparent and easy 

to follow, includes edge cases/exceptions if relevant. 

- 2 = Some reasoning is shown but chain is incomplete or less clear. 

- 1 = Minimal reasoning, mostly just the conclusion. 

- 0 = No reasoning at all. 

---

### Output Format 

Return ONLY a JSON object with three integer fields: 

```json 

{

"Coherence": 0 | 1 | 2 | 3, 

"Relevance": 0 | 1 | 2 | 3, 

"Explainability": 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 

}

Do not add explanations, comments, or extra text. 

Inputs 86 

Relevance Input: 

$relevance_input 

Explainability Input: 

$explain_input 

Naturalness Input: 

$natural_input 

"""