Title: -

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.16172v1

Published Time: Mon, 20 Jul 2026 01:14:53 GMT

Number of Pages: 34

Markdown Content:
1

# The Internet of Things for Sma rt M anufacturing: A Review 

Hui Yang 1* , Soundar Kumara 1, Satish T.S. Bukkapatnam 2, and Fugee Tsung 3 

> 1

Harold and Inge Marcus Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering 

The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA 

> 2

Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering 

Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA 

> 3

Department of Industrial Engineering and Logistics Management 

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 

# Abstract 

The m odern manufacturing industry is investing in new technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), big data 

analytics, cloud computing and cybersecurity to cope with system complexity , increase information visibility , improve 

production performance, and gain competitive advantage s in the global market . These advances are rapidly enabling a

new generation of smart manufacturing , i.e., a cyber -physical system tightly integrating manufacturing enterprise s in 

the physical world with virtual enterprise s in cyberspace . To a great extent, realizing the full potential of cyber -physical 

systems depends on the development of new methodologies on the Internet of Manufacturing Things ( IoMT ) for data -

enabled engineering innovations . This paper presents a review of the IoT technologies and systems that are the drivers 

and foundations of data -driven innovations in smart manufacturing. We discuss the evolution of internet from computer 

network s to human network s to the latest era of smart and connected networks of manufacturing things (e.g., materials, 

sensors, equipment , people , products , and supply chain) . In addition, we present a new framework that leverage s IoMT 

and cloud computing to develop a virtual machine network. We further extend our review to IoMT cybersecurity issues 

that are of paramount importance to businesses and operations, as well as IoT and smart manufacturing policies that are 

laid out by governments around the world for the future of smart factory . Finally, we present the challenges and 

opportunities arising from IoMT. We hope this work will help catalyze more in -depth investigations and multi -

disciplinary research efforts to advance IoMT technologies. 

Keywords : Internet of Manufacturing Things ( IoMT ), virtual machine network, sensor systems, smart manufacturing, 

cybersecurity, network science, manufacturing policies, opportunity, challenge 

*Corresponding author: 

Hui Yang, e -mail:  huy25@psu.edu ; voice: (814) 865 -7397; Fax: (814) 863 -4745 2

# I. Introduction 

The manufacturing sector has a large footprint in the US economy , producing a gross output of $2.2 

trillion in 201 6, 11.7 % of the total American GDP [1] . To achiev e competitive advantages in global market s,

modern manufacturing enterprises strive to create new products (or services) with exceptional features such 

as adaptation, customization, responsiveness, quality and reliability at unprecedented scales. New products 

have become an integral and indispensable part of everyday life. For example, phones and automobiles are 

not just communication and travel devices – they are becoming embedded with services which make them 

act as personal devices. Products ar e becoming increasingly self -aware. As a result, manufacturing systems 

are becoming increasingly complex and therefore deploy advanced sensing technologies to increase 

information visibility and system c ontrollability. Notably, Industry 4.0 is driving manufacturing enterprises 

to be come a new generation of cyber -physical systems towards network -enabled smart manufacturing. The 

“smartness” level depends to a great extent on data -driven innovations that “enable all information about the 

manufacturing process to be available whenever it is needed, wherever it is needed, and in an easily 

comprehens ible form across the enterprise and among interconnected enterprises ” [2, 3] . As smart 

manufacturing becomes a trend impacting business and econ omic growth, a large number of netwo rk ed 

machines are used increasingly to carry out manufacturing operations. These machines may carry out the 

same or different functions or tasks, and some machines rely heavily on the output from other machines, e.g., 

a pipelined product line. The connection between networked machines may also be configured dynamically 

to increase flexibility and adaptation to customized tasks. As a result, the smart synergy of networked 

machines is critical to improving the performance of manufacturing systems. 

One critical enabling technology for smart manufacturing is the Internet of Things (IoT) , which is the 

formation of a global information network composed of large numbers of interconnected “Things .” Here, 

manufacturing “Things” may include materials, sensors, actuators, controllers, robots, human operators, 

machines, equipment, products, and material handling equipment to name but a few . The i nternet -based IoT 

infrastructure provides an unprecedented opportunity to link manufacturing “Things ,” services, and 

applications to achieve effective digital integration of the entire manufacturing enterprise. This integration 

can be extended from enterprise resource planning (ERP) to supply chain management (SCM) to 

manufacturing execution system (MES) to process control systems (PCS). However, the rapid growth of 

large -scale IoT sensing leads to the creation/manifestation of big data that are stored locally or in data 

repositories distributed over the cloud. Realizing the full potential of big data for smart manufacturing 

requires fundamentally new methodologies for large -scale IoT data management, information processing, 

and manufacturing process control . For example, the IoT may deploy a multitude of sensors to continuous ly 

monitor machine conditions and then transmit data to the cloud. IoT data include not only historical sensor 

signals and measurements collected from a large number of machines but also on -line data from in -situ 

monitoring of machines. The data can be retrieved easily from the c lou d platform to distributed computers 

for parallel processing and used to extract useful information and prototype algorithms for deployment in the 

cloud or in the I oT “Things .” However, v ery little has been done to leverage sensing data , known as machine 

signatures, from a large -scale IoT network of machines to develop new methods and tools for manufacturing 

systems diagnostics, prognostics, and optimization .

Smart manufacturing goes beyond the automation of manufacturing shop floors but rather depends on 

data -driven innovations to realize high levels of autonomy and optimization of manufacturing enterprises. As 

Io T and big data lead to the realization of cyber -physical manufacturing systems, the physical world is reflected 

in cyberspace through data -driven information processing, modeling and simulation. Analytics in the 

cyberspace exploit the knowledge and useful information acquired from data to feed optimal actions (or control 

schemes) back to the physical world. Cyber -physical integration and interaction are indispensable to realizing 

smart manufacturing. This paper presents a review of IoT te chnologies and systems that are enablers of data -

driven innovations in smart manufacturing. The internet has evolved from hard -wired computer network s

through wireless huma n connected network s to the new era of smart and connected networks of manufacturing 

things. This trend is integrat ed with rapid advances in cloud computing, virtual reality , and big data analytics 

to provide a new paradigm for smart manufacturing. We present a new framework that leverages Io T and 

cloud computing to develop a virtual machine network . We have also reviewed the Io T cybersecurity issues 

that are of paramount importance to businesses and operations, as well as IoT and smart manufacturing policies 3

for the future of smart factory defined by governments across the world. Finally, challenges and opportunities 

in IoMT are described . It is our expectation that this work will catalyze increased multidisciplinary research 

effort and in -depth investigation to advance the I nternet of Manufacturing Things ( IoMT ) technologies. 

The rest of the paper is organized as follows : Section II provides an overview of the Internet of Thi ngs .

IoT technologies for manufacturing services and applications are discussed and summarized in Section III. 

Then, we present a case study that leverages IoT and cloud computing to build virtual machine networks in 

Section IV. IoT cybersecurity issues and manufacturing policies are discussed in Section s V and VI ,

respectively. The challenges and opportunities to design and develop IoT technologies for smart 

manufacturing are discussed in Section VII. Finally, we present the conclusions in Section VIII .

# II. IoT Overview 

## A. The E volution of the Internet 

The I nternet’s reach and connectivity ha ve touched every aspect of human endeavor . It is estimated that around 

47% of the world population were internet users in 2015 [4] . Fi g. 1 show s the evolution from before the internet 

to the Internet of Things. In the pre -internet stage, telecommun ic ation advanced from the concept of the 

“speaking telegraph” by Innocenzo Manzetti in 1844 through the first New York to Chicago phone call by 

Alexander Bell in 1892 to the burgeoning mobile and smart phone technologies. In 1960, the US Department 

of Defense funded the ARPANET project to develop the first prototype of Internet – interconnected computer 

networks for fault -tolerant communications. From the 1960s to the 1990s, the world saw rapid development s

of content material s in the internet such as emails, information, entertainment, web browsing, and HTML 

webpages . After the 1990s, the internet beg an to provide more services to individual users and business users 

such as online auction s, retailing, shopping, advertisements, search, and financial transactions. Since the 

2000s, social networks have facilitated interconnectivity among billions of people , e.g., Linkedin, Facebook, 

and Twitter . Also, m assive open online courses (MOOC) websites are increasingly establish ing an internet of 

students for teaching and education. Most recently, we have witnesse d the shift from the internet of people to 

the internet of things. More and more “smart” devices are connected to the internet. It is estimated that there 

will be 212 billion “things” connected to the internet by 2020 [5] . The m anufacturing industry is also moving 

towards the new “smart factory ,” which is envisioned as a cyber -physical system that “enables all information 

about the manufacturing process to be available when it is needed, where it is needed, and in the form that it 

is needed across entire manufacturing supply chains, complete product lifecycles, multiple industries, and 

small, medium and large enterprises ” [2, 3] .

## B. IoT Sens ing 

The concept of IoT was first coined by Ashton at the MIT Auto -ID Center in 1999 [6] . The term IoT 

means the formation of an “Internet” composed of large numbers of interconnected “Things .” Here, the 

“Internet ” refers to a global inter -networking infrastructure that use s the TCP/IP protocol to connect and 

remotely control “Things” . High -level communication based on the TCP/IP suite may be supported by a blend 

of low -level wired and wireless technologies such as Ethernet, Wi -Fi, Bluetooth, ZigBee, radio frequency 

identification (RFID), or barcodes . “Things” refer to any objects (either physical or virtual) that have unique   

> Telecommunication
> 1844 Manzetti, telephone
> 1892 Bell, telephone
> 1973 Motorola, mobile phone
> 1992 IBM, PDA
> 2007 Apple, iPhone
> Internet of Contents
> 1960s ARPANET
> 1980s TCP/IP
> 1989 AOL
> Contents: emails, messaging,
> information, entertainment,
> web browser, htmls
> Internet of Services
> E-commerce, e -productivity
> online auction, retailing,
> shopping, advertisements
> 1995 Amazon, eBay
> 1998 Google search, Paypal
> Internet of People
> 2003 Linkedin, Myspace, Skype
> 2004 Facebook
> 2005 YouTube, Reddit
> 2006 Twitter
> 2011 Google+, Snapchat, Instagram
> 2012 Coursera, MOOC
> Internet of Things
> Smart and interconnected
> networks of machines,
> operators, sensors, devices,
> raw materials, vehicles,
> bicycles ,and other objects

Time  

> Fig. 1 :The evolution of the Internet

4

identities and can sense, collect and /or exchange data about environmental and operational dynamics. 

Examples of “Things” include vehicles, sensors, actuators, machines, controllers, robots, and human operators. 

In practice, the IP address and/or a universal unique identifier (UUID) are commonly used to designate a 

“Thing .” Th is designation greatly enhance s the ident ifiability of “Things ,” making the integration of “Things” 

in to large -scale IoT networks much easier. The key technologies that integrate “Things” into IoT ecosystems 

include RFI D, wireless sensor networks (WSN ), and mobile computing , which are discussed briefly in the 

following sections :

RFID: RFID technology reads and queries RFID tags attached to an object to automatically identify, 

monitor, and track the object using radio waves [7] . The basic components of RFID technology are : i) RFID 

tag s, ii) RFID reader s, and iii) backend signal processing and IT infrastructure. The RFID tag contains a small 

microchip that stores data and processes information, as well as an antenna that can receive and transmit data 

to the reader. RFID tags can be either passive or active. Passive tags harvest energy from the reader’s radio 

waves. Active tags have an embedded power source (e.g., battery) and can operate a t a farther distance from 

the reader. RFID readers transmit an encoded interrogating signal to all tags within range and read out their 

stored information. Unlike barcodes, the tags do not have to be within the range of sight but only in the range 

of radio waves. Radio waves provide the energy source for passive tags so that they can respond with the ir 

stored identity information. Active RFID sensors often have a longer communication range than passive ones 

due to the availability of an internal battery. For example, high -frequency active tags (e.g., 3 -10GHz) can reach 

range s from 300 feet to 1500 feet, while low -frequency passive tags (e.g., 800MHz~900MHz) often operate 

over range s between 1 foot and 50 feet. Based on the type of tag and reader, RFID systems are commonly 

classified into three categories, i.e., Active Reader Passive Tag (ARPT), Active Reader Active Tag (ARAT), 

and Passive Reader Active Tag (PRAT) [8] . RFID offers a variety of advantages such as low cost, battery -free 

operation , long range and long lifetime. It is worth mentioning that RFID systems have been used prominently 

in manufacturing enterprise operations, especially for work -in -process tracking, inventory control , and supply 

chain visibility management [9] .

Wirel ess sensor networks (WSN): WSNs mainly use spatially distributed autonomous sensors to sense 

and monitor environmental and operational dynamics of a complex system . Rapid advance s in WSNs 

contribute significantly to the implementation of IoT [10] , because “things” are much easier to be connected 

with each other when many machines are equipped with wireless sensors. Each WSN sensor consists of several 

components – a radio transceiver to tra nsmit data and receive control signals; a microcontroller providing 

embedded computing; an analog circuit for signal processing ; an embedded operating system; and a power 

source. Large number s of WSN sensors are commonly organized into three different types of network 

topologies, i.e., star, cluster tree, and multi -hop mesh [11] . Because a microcontroller is embe dded into sensor 

nodes to improve the local processing capacity , each individual sensor becomes “smarter” in IoT. Therefore, 

decision making can be enabl ed at different levels of a n IoT system, i.e., cloud processing, gateway computing, 

or embedded intelligence in sensor nodes. WSNs have been used widely for civil structure monitoring [10, 

12] , landslide detection [13] , traffic monitoring [14] , and machine health monitoring [15, 16] . For example, 

Bukkapatnam et al. installed sensors (i.e., cutting force, vibration, and acoustic emission) to monitor nano -

machining dynamics and process -machine interactions to provide higher yields and better repeatability. There 

are three challenges, i.e. , latency, bandwidth and interference, that prevent the ubiquitous application of WSNs 

in industry. WSN s have a limited bandwidth and update frequency for data transmission . However , it is not 

necessary to transmit all the raw data through the WSN, but only useful information extracted by the embedded 

computing. One solution is to transmit features that are extracted from the raw data, and the other is to transmit 

Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) coefficients (i.e., data compression by C ooley Tukey algorithms) that can be 

used to reconstruct the raw data. 

Mobile computing: Smart phones and tablets bring significant changes in almost every walk of life 

including the manufacturing industry. Note that smart phones are equipped with internet connectivity, 

advanced process ors , and embedded sensors to obtain acceler ation , ambient light, attitude ( gyroscope ),

barometric pressure , GPS location , proximity, and images [17] . As a result, it is easy to integrate mobile 

computing with IoT systems. For example, IoT things can access the internet or social networks through 

mobile devices , while IoT sensing capabilities can be enriched by sensors or cameras embedded in the phone. 

In the past few years, the interplay between IoT systems and mobile phones has significantly increas ed . The 

integration of mobile phones with IoT near users promise s to improve sensing mod ali ties, increase 

information -processing capability and also provide better decisions and services in real time. 5

RFID, WSNs , and mobile computing contribute significantly to the development of IoT sensing systems. 

IoT sensor nodes are deployed to collect and send data to cloud data center s, while users can control the IoT 

remotely through the internet. The stored data and analytical results are readily available to users anywhere 

and at any time using a web -based user interface (e.g., dashboard) . As there are different types of IoT sensors ,

optimal scheduling and planning algorithms for power and computing re sources are needed urgently . The 

existence of heterogeneous sensing networks also requires seamless information exchange and data 

communication through different protocols to achieve a high level of interoperability. 

## C. IoT Data Protocols and Architectures 

The efficacy of an IoT system depends to a great extent on the interconnection between many different 

types of “Things,” which may have different communication, processing, storage, and power -supply 

characteristics. Table I shows a list of 9 data link protocols widely used for data transport in IoT systems. 

Example protocols used for a short -range and local -area wireless network include Bluetooth, ZigBee, Z -wave, 

WiFi, and NFC. They are often used to transmit data over short range s from 10cm to 100 meters. Bluetooth is 

commonly used for in -vehicle networking and wearable sensing applications [18] . ZigBee is the most popular 

WSN protocol with low energy consumption well suited for ubiquitous sensing [19] . Z -wave has a very low 

data rate with a very low energy consumption suitable for smart home and health applications [20] . WiFi is a 

wireless computer network protocol based on IEEE 802.11 standards, while NFC is commonly seen in 

contactless payment via smart phones [21] . In addition, there are long -range and wide -area network protocols 

such as SigFox [22] , Neul [23] , LoRaWAN [24] , and cellular communication technologies. These protocols 

are commonly used for smart city and environmental applications to transmit data over range s from 2 

kilometers to 200 kilometers.                                            

> Table I . IoT data link protocols and their characteristics
> Protocol Standard Frequency Range Data Rates Applications
> Bluetooth Bluetooth 4.2 2.4GHz 50 -150m 1Mbps in -vehicle network
> wearable sensing
> smart home
> ZigBee IEEE802.15.4 2.4GHz 10 -100m 250kbps smart home
> remote control
> health care
> Z-Wave ZAD12837 900MHz 30m 9.6/40/100kbps smart home health
> care
> WiFi IEEE 802.11 2.4GHz
> 5GHz
> 50m 150~600Mbps laptops, mobiles,
> tablets, and digital
> TVs
> NFC ISO/IEC 18000 -313.56MHz 10cm 100~420kbps smartphones,
> contactless payment
> Sigfox Sigfox 900MHz 30 -50km (Rural)
> 3-10km (Urban)
> 10~1000bps smart city,
> industrial and
> environmental
> applications
> Neul Neul 900MHz 10km 10~100kbps smart city,
> industrial and
> environmental
> applications
> LoRaWAN LoRaWAN Various 15km (Rural)
> 2-5km (Urban)
> 0.3 -50 kbps smart city,
> industrial and
> environmental
> applications
> Cellular GSM/GPRS/EDGE
> (2G), UMTS/HSPA
> (3G), LTE (4G)
> 900 MHz
> 1800 MHz
> 1900 MHz
> 2100MHz
> 35km (GSM)
> 200km (HSPA)
> 35 -170kps(GPRS)
> 120 -384kbps(EDGE)
> 384kbps -2Mbps(UMTS)
> 600kbps -10Mbps(HSPA)
> 3-10Mbps (LTE)
> cellular networks,
> mobile phones, and
> long -distance
> applications

The IoT system also uses the internet to connect a large number of “Things.” Internet protocol (IP) is a

universal standard for data communication over heterogeneous networks. Each “Thing” is assigned a unique 

IP address. As the number of “Things” connected to the internet is increasing rapidly , scalability of the protocol 

has emerged as a major challenge. Currently, IPv4 is the 32 -bit address system that is on the verge of being 

incapacitated, i.e., using up all the IP addresses. IPv6 is the new 128 -bit address system that has a capacity of 

approximately 2128 , or 3.4×10 38 addresses [25] . IPv6 enables every IoT “Thing” to have a unique IP address 6

in the global Internet network. 6LowPAN is a key IPv6 -based technology that defines encapsulation and 

header compression mechanisms independent of the frequency band and physical layers [26] . In other words, 

6LowPAN can be used across different communication platforms (e.g., WiFi, ZigBee, 802.15.4), thereby 

enabling sensors in heterogeneous networks to carry IPv6 packets and become a part of large -scale IoT system. 

Specific to manufacturing, MTConnect provides an information model that includes both a common 

vocabulary (dictionary) and semantics for manufacturing data as well as some communications protocols 

(specifically through the Agent). MTConnect was develop ed by the MTConnect Institute to enable 

manufacturing equipment to communicate data and exchange information using standard Internet 

technologies , e.g., HTTP and XML (Extensible Mark -Up Language) rather than proprietary formats [27, 28] .

MTConnect is a universal protocol for communication between Io T-enabled machines and user -specific 

applications in the m anufacturing shop env iron ment . In other words, open standard grammar and vocabulary 

are provided by manufacturing dictionary and XML models to defin e and model manufacturing “Things” such 

as name s, units, values, and context s of machines and cutting tools. Notably, Table I lists a variety of protocols 

that can be used to connect and control “Things” remotely. However, MTConnect is a read -only 

communication protocol that ensures safety by design. In other words, software applications can only request 

data from MTConnect compatible “Things ,” but cannot control the machines or equipment through the 

MTConnect standard. 

As shown in Fig. 2, MTConnect consists of three basic components – ad ap ter, agent , and application. The 

adapter is a software tool that links or converts various data definitions to the MTConnect data definition. Note 

that the use of an Adapter is the most prevalent means of implementation of the standard, but it is not a 

requirement. The agent receives data request s from applications and then uses the dict ionary and semantics to 

translate raw data into MTConnect compliant data. Further, MTConnect compliant data will be transmitted to 

the application for information processing and knowledge discovery, including data request s, storage, 

analytics, and visualization etc. Example s of applications may include software tools used in manufacturing 

execution systems (MES), production management systems, enterprise resource planning (ERP), predictive 

maintenance systems, and visualization dashboard s. If the data follow MTConnect defin itions, then there will 

be no need to redefine data for every MTConnect compliant software application. This will help to reduce 

project costs significantly , optimize production planning, increase manufacturing performance, and improve 

predictive maintenance. 

In addition, a number of IoT framework s and architecture s such as RAMI 4.0 and OPC U nified 

Architecture have been proposed to define the communication structure of Industry 4.0 . RAMI 4.0 provide s

a reference architectural model to define the 3 -dimensional map for Industry 4.0. The first dimension is the 

Factory Hierarchy (i.e., product, field device, control device, station, work center, and enterprise). The second 

dimension is Architecture (i.e., Asset, Integration, communication, information, function, and business). The 

third dimension is Product Life Cycle (i.e., from the initial design to the scrapyard). Note that RAMI 4.0 is 

similar to the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model but add two more dimensions that are critical to 

the industrial systems. Note also that the OSI model uses 7 abstraction layers – physical layer, data link layer, 

network layer, transport layer, session layer, presentation layer and application layer - to compartmentalize 

and standardize functions in network communication [29] . As such , the OSI model enables users to 

communicate over the internet without concern for electrical specifications, binary transmission, or network 

addressing . Similarly, RAMI 4.0 compartmentalize s and standardize s functions in three different dimensions 

so as to provide the reference architecture for Industry 4.0. Also, the OPC foundation proposes the OPC 

Unified Architecture (UA) for data acquisition and information exchange in the RAMI 4.0 framework. 

Because the same architecture model is used , OPC UA enabled devices and products will speak the same 

language for effective and efficient communication. However, there are also other IoT architectures currently 

available such as the IoT standard landscape from NIST, Robot Revolution Initiative (Japan), the Industrial       

> Adapters MT Agent Application
> Sensors
> CNC
> PLC
> A piece of software with
> vocabulary and semantics
> to t ranslate raw data into
> MTConnect compliant data
> Network Data request
> Data storage
> Data analytics
> Data visualization
> Fig. 2:An illustration of the MTConnect standard.

7

Internet Consortium ( IIC ) white paper, Platform Industrie 4.0 white paper, as well as the Cisco white paper .

Note that it is difficult for all companies to use the same reference architecture of Industry 4.0 due to 

competition s in the business world. However, such competition will accelerate the development of a 

comprehensive IoT framework. As with the first phase of internet development, it is anticipated that 

competition and collaboration will eventually result in a widely -used IoT framework and architecture for 

Industry 4.0. 

## D. IoT Platform s

Table II shows a list of major IoT platforms and their characteristics. IoT platforms provide the software 

infrastructure to enable physical “Things” and cyber -world applications to communicate and integrate with 

each other . Examples of popular platforms include GE Predix, ThingWorx, IBM Watson, Azure, C3 IoT, and 

AWS . These industrial platforms include a variety of architectural mechanisms including cloud computing, 

embedded systems, augmented reality integration, data management, software applications, machine learning, 

and analytical services. Pervasive IoT sensing leads to the proliferation of data . Most IoT platforms provide 

a service called “dashboard” for data visualization [30] . Currently, dashboard programming has become 

popular in IoT , because it provides a n easy , user -friendly graphical user interface (GUI) to mon it or useful key 

performance indicators (KPIs) quickly and generate reports for decision support. For example, Azure supports 

a user -configured dashboard that can include a number of resources from the marketplace such as IoT events, 

time series insights, stream analytics, log analytics, cost analytics, and re ports. However, most of these 

platforms are limited in their ability to fulfill the needs to realize smart manufacturing. In short, these platforms 

are not specifically designed and customized for the manufacturing industry. It is critical to integrate 

manufacturing domain expertise with the IoT platforms, which is ultimately required to steer and gain value 

from the data analysis .

Table I I. IoT platforms and their characteristics                                                                         

> Platform Company Features
> Predix GE ▪Supports over 60 regulatory frameworks worldwide
> ▪Pivotal Cloud Foundry
> ▪Enable industrial -scale Analytics for Asset Performance Management (APM)
> ▪Cloud platform to build apps for industry
> ThingWorx PTC ▪Coldlight -IoT Analytics
> ▪Augmented Reality Integration
> ▪Machine -to -Machine remote monitoring and service
> Watson IoT IBM ▪Machine learning and tradeoff Analytics: helps the users to make decision s
> ▪Visual recognition, Rasberry Pi support
> ▪Real -Time Insights -Contextualize and analyze real -time IoT data
> Azure IoT Microsoft ▪Easily integrate Azure IoT Suite with your systems and applications, including
> Salesforce, SAP, Oracle Database, and Microsoft Dynamics
> ▪Services: computing, mobile services, data management, and Messaging
> ▪Enables devices to analyze untapped data automatically
> AWS IoT Amazon ▪An IoT platform for enterprise application development
> ▪Supports HTTP, WebSockets, and MQTT
> ▪Rules Engine can route messages to AWS endpoints
> ▪Create a virtual model of each device
> Google IoT Cloud Google ▪Cloud -based platform
> ▪Modular services: computing , app, query, cloud functions, cloud database
> ▪Use Google’s core infrastructure
> ▪Committed to open source
> Machineshop MachineShop ▪Middleware
> ▪Provides a rich set of different level service s
> ▪Easy integration using industry -standard RESTful API’s
> ▪Edge computing platform
> Cisco IoT Cloud Cisco ▪Platform as a service (PaaS)
> ▪REST APIs for send and get data streams
> ▪Better for tiny IoT prototypes or M2M applications
> ▪Access to 3 rd party APIs
> Oracle Cloud Oracle ▪Web -based
> ▪Pre -integrated: Oracle SaaS Auto -Association & Auto -Discovery
> ▪Rich Connectivity: Cloud & On -premise connectors
> ▪Recommendations: Built -in recommendation engine for guidance
> ▪Error Detection & Repair: Alters & Guided Error Handling

## E. IoT Technologies 

There are many enabling technologies (e.g., cloud computing, virtual reality, IPv6, ambient intelligence) 

contribut ing to the rapid development and implementation of IoT systems. This section presents the 8

discuss ion of 3 key technologies – cloud computing, virtual reality, and big data analytics – that promise to 

improve IoT -enabled manufacturing services. 

Cloud computing : Cloud computing provides internet -based computing services , including data storage, 

data management, KPI computation, data visualization and data analytics amongst others . There are three 

broad categories of cloud computing services, i.e., infrastructure as a service (IaaS) [31] , platform as a service 

(PaaS) [32] , and software as a service (Saas) [33] . IaaS refers to cloud -based services of IT infrastructure such 

as operating systems, virtual machines, networks, and storage. PaaS provides an environment to develop, test, 

deploy, and manage IoT software applications. SaaS delivers the services of software applications over the 

cloud. Cloud computing allows IoT systems to gain ubiquitous access to shared computing and storage 

resources, thereby overcom ing the disadvantage of limited computing resources and storage capability in the 

“Things .” In addition, the integration of cloud computing with IoT offers services such as machine learning 

and data analytics over the internet , supporting intelligence and decision making in different contexts. 

Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented R eality (AR) : The integration of VR and AR with IoT systems 

is conducive to asset utilization, labor training, root cause diagnosis, and maintenance, among others. VR 

enables a person’s physical presence in the virtual environment and simulate s human interactions with virtual 

objects [34] . VR has been used widely in digital design, workforce training, and predictive maintenance. 

However, AR augments the real -world, physical environment with computer inputs such as instructions, 

sound, video, or graphics [35] . AR enables close interaction between the physical world and cyberspace ,

thereby enhancing the user experience and knowledge about the connection between smart “Things” and the 

network, human operators, and other “Things .” For example, AR is used in the inventory control to check the 

utilization rate of assets in the storage area of a manufacturing shop. In addition, AR is used by service 

technicians in the elevator industry to provide remote, predictive and self -guided mai ntenance and repair 

services. The use of AR significantly reduces the skill variability between technicians, shorten s the repair time, 

improve s the quality of elevator services , and further increase s the building efficiency. 

Big data Analytics : IoT sensing leads to big data with the following characteristics – high volume, high 

velocity, high veracity, and high variety [36, 37] . A large number of “Things” generate huge amounts of data 

in real time. The challenge with manufacturing data is in that it can be "big" in terms of variety and veracity. 

Variety arises from the diverse data types in manufacturing, from power profiles to machining parameters to 

acoustic emission s to cutting force signals, each requiring a particular signal acquisition parameter [38] . The 

manufacturing workshop environment also has a high level of nonstationarity, uncertainty and noise [39] .

Veracity is particularly important in the IoT paradigm given the uncertainty (and the lack of quantification of 

uncertainty) of statistical models. However, the manufacturing industry is not well p repared for changes in the 

quest for data -driven knowledge [40, 41] . Big data analytics provide efficient and effective methods and tools 

to handle large -scale IoT data for information processing and manufacturing process control . For example, the 

new MapReduce framework can be leveraged to develop parallel algorithms for processing massive amounts 

of data across a distributed cluster of processors or computers and building a virtual machine network [42] .

Hadoop is an open software framework for the fast processing of big data and run ning analytical software on 

distributed computing clusters [43] . The availability of such big data tools help s to overcome the limited ability 

of conventional algorithms to process large amounts of data, and further extract useful information and new 

patterns to help improve the “smartness” level of manufacturing. 

# III. Sensor Network s, Manufacturing Services , and Applications 

IoT has found applications in many areas such as manufacturing, healthcare, transportation, smart city, and 

smart home. This section will focus on a review of manufacturing execution systems (MES), sensor -based 

modeling of manufacturing systems, and the recent development and application of IoT technologies in the 

manufacturing domain. 

## A. Manufacturing Execution Systems 

Fig. 3 shows a typical structure of a manufacturing execution system (MES) used in current practice . The 

objective of MES is to establish transparent data sharing and information exchange between machines, 

controllers, and the managerial departments in manufacturing shops [44] . At the process levels, there are 

various proprietary control systems from different vendors such as WSNs, PLCs, and CNC controllers. 

Gateway computers transmit real -time data streams from control systems in the bottom layer to two database 9

servers. Then, manag ement -level users utilize software applications for process monitoring and data analytics. 

The MES provides a backbone system for digital performance management, energy management, cost 

analysis, quality control, and supply chain optimization. Recently, IoT technologies have brought significant 

changes to the structure of existing MES system s. With the MTConnect protocol and IoT -enabled control 

systems, MES is moving to cloud platform s. Cloud -based MES systems overcome the difficult y of decod ing 

real -time data streams with proprietary definitions, thereby making data communication, storage, analytics, 

and reporting much easier to implement. 

Fig. 4 shows the bidirectional data flow between E nterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems , MES , and 

Process Control Systems ( PCS ), i.e., top down from ERP to PCS and bottom up from PCS to ERP. Fig. 4 

follows the Activity models from ISA 95 but focus es more on the data flow. The ERP systems receive inputs 

of customer orders, market analysis, and demand forecasting [45] . Purchas ing and logistics departments will 

place purchase orders of materials, and also plan, track and monitor shipment s. Work orders are then g enerated 

and passed to the MES to describe raw materials, order quantities and expected completion time. The MES 

creates a more detailed plan to complete the production, including the allocation of resources, operator 

scheduling, and machine parameter settings. When the PCS system is working to fulfill the work orders, in -

process data (e.g., real -time sensor signals, machine conditions, production data and job status) will be 

collected and fed back to the MES. Based on the results of data analytics, the MES adjusts the manufacturing 

process (e.g., predictive maintenance, operator shifts) to deliver work orders on time . In addition, the MES  

> Fig. 3: The structure of a manufacturing execution system.

## ERP  MES  PCS   

> Work orders (raw materials,
> quantities, deliver time),
> process planning ……
> Production planning and
> control, machine parameters,
> operator scheduling ……
> Customer orders
> Market analysis
> Demand forecasting ……
> Sensor signals, machine
> conditions, production data,
> job status, tool wear ……
> Asset utilization, quality data, labor
> management, process performance ……
> Fig. 4: The data flow between ERP, MES, and PCS .

10 

provide s valuable feedback (e.g., asset utilization, quality data, labor management and process performance) 

to the ERP so that the purchas ing department can make changes to the bill of materials. The avai la bility of 

real -time feedback makes cost analysis, work -in -process predictions, and inventory contr ol more accurate and 

reliable. 

## B. Sensor -based Manufacturing Informatics and Control 

Advanced sensing leads to big data populated in ERP, MES, and PCS. Currently, a significant amount of 

data already exist in the manufacturing domain, but are not fully utilized for real -time process monitoring, 

fault diagnosis, and performance optimization. Realizing the full potential of MES and advanced sens ing 

depends on the development of new methodologies to extract useful features and patterns from the data, and 

then exploit the new knowledge to enable smart manufacturing [46] . Here, we categorize sensor -based 

manufacturing informatics and control into four specific areas as follows: 

Data representation and visualization : Sensing systems communicate data in real time with databases 

(either in the cloud or local ly ). In many cases, energy budget and bandwidth pose significant challenges on 

the efficiency and effectiveness of data transmission. For example, battery -supported wireless sensors and 

active RFID tags commonly face the difficulties in energy budget and bandwidth. As such, a compact 

representation of data is necessary . For example, Fourier analysis expresses the signals as the summation of 

sinusoids in different frequency bands. Wavelet representation transforms sensor signals into a combination 

of orthonormal basis vectors that are locally supported. A c ompact representation gets rid of the need to store 

large amounts of raw data, but instead store s significant Fourier or wavelet coefficients for compression and/or 

transmission purposes. Th is compact representation also makes the underlying patterns more prominent in the 

transformed domains so that the extraction of salient features becomes much easier in the context of smart 

manufacturing [47, 48] . Also, data visualization is critical to presenting key information and patterns to end 

users in an easily comprehensible way . For example, a customized “Dashboard” GUI can help a user pinpoint 

critical information of interests , e.g., KPIs, energy usage , machine parameters . Network visualization is also 

conducive to characteriz ing and represent ing the interconnected network of manufacturing “Things,” thereby 

facilitating the form ation of a virtual machine network in cyberspace .

Pattern recognition and f eature extraction : Data representation and visualization help transform the raw 

data to alternative domains, e.g., frequency domain, wavelet domain, and state -space domain . The next step 

is to learn and recognize hidden patterns using pattern recognition methods such as principal component 

analysis (PCA), data clustering, factor analysis, multilinear subspace learning, and Bayesian networks. Further, 

feature extraction focuses on the quantification of salient patterns as features for system informatics and 

control. For examples, Bukkaptnam et al. proposed the wavelet analysis of acoustic emission signals for 

feature representation in metal cutting [49, 50] . Koh and Shi et al. integrated engineering knowledge with the 

Haar transformation for tonnage signal analysis and fault detection in stamping processes [51] . Jin and Shi 

developed feature -preserving data compression of stamping tonnage signals using wavelets [52] , and further 

decompose d press tonnage signals to obtain individual station signals in transfer or progressive die processes 

[53] . Ding et al. proposed the integration of data -reduction with data -separation tasks for process monitoring 

and statistical control of waveform signals [54] . Bukkaptnam et al. [47] also proposed an adaptive wavelet 

method to represent nonlinear dynamic signals for feature extraction in the state space. Bukkaptnam et al. [55, 

56] developed local Markov models to predict system dynamics and future evolution in the state space. Yang 

et al. [57, 58] also developed a new heterogeneous recurrence approach to monitor and control nonlinear 

stochastic process es . Heterogeneous recurrence analysis was successfully implemented for both sleep apnea 

monitoring [59] and the identification of dynamic transitions in ultraprecision machining processes [60] .

Sensor data fusion : It is common that multiple sensors with different sensitivity to certain operational 

characteristics are installed in a manufacturing system to collect homogeneous or heterogeneous signals. It 

may be noted that these multi -sensor signals can be inter -related if they are monitoring system dynamics from 

different perspectives. Multi -sensor data fusion consists of three critical steps: i) identifying multiscale 

information flows among multiple sensors; ii) modeling the dynamic evolution of the underlying process 

dynamics, iii) exploiting the new knowledge from sensor fusion for system informatics and control. 

Conventionally , linear correlation structures between multiple sensors are characterized to monitor and control 

manufacturing processes. Effective multi -sensor fusion strategies should consider both information -transfer 

flows in real -time sensor signals and the evolution of nonlinear dynamics in the underlying processes. For 

examples, Gang et al. [61] proposed nonlinear coupling analysis of variables by exploiting cross recurrences 11 

between them. The nonlinear measure is commonly used in neuroscience to study the interrelationship between 

neurons. Yang et al. [62, 63] developed a novel wavelet framework - multiscale recurrence analysis - to 

characterize and quantify the variations of nonlinear dynamics in the underlying processes. Also, Yang et al. 

[64] , and Bukkapatnam and Cheng [65] worked with General Motors to develop local recurrence models to 

predict the nonlinear and nonstationary evolution of manufacturing operational conditions. Jing and S hi [66] 

proposed to identify causal relationships from observational data for manufacturing process control. 

Engineering knowledge was integrated with heuristic rules to learn arc directions in the causal network. Qiang 

et al. [67] consider ed nonlinear phase synchronization and thereby physical interactions between correlated 

functional process variables for conditional monitoring and diagnosis of chemical -mechanical planarization 

process es .

Process Control and Decision making : Once a manufacturing process is out of control , the next step is 

to take optimal actions to bring the system back under control . The action plan depends on a number of steps 

such as root cause diagnostics, condition prognostics, and system optimization. Traditional methods for root 

cause diagnostics include engineering -driven statistical model s (e.g., stream of variation analysis , probabilistic 

graph models ) [68, 69] or failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA) [70] . Also, physics -driven models can 

be formulated based on specific failure mechanisms in the manufacturing system . However, they are often not 

able to match with real data very well and are there fore inadequate to predict system malfunctions and identify 

root causes . Data -driven models leverage the real -time sensor signals to characterize and model degradation 

behaviors in the underlying process. A salient advantage is the ability to transform high -dimensional sensor 

signals into low -dimensional degradation features fo r condition prognostics [71, 72] .

Further , simulation modeling replicates a real -world manufacturing system , and better explains the 

underlying mechanism s of the system. Hence , simulation modeling is widely used for diagnostic, prognostic, 

and optimization purposes. However, discrete -event simulation (DES) tends to track individual entities and 

their activities in the network of queues. As a result, DES models are not only time -consuming to execute but 

also provide unrealistic approximations in the setting of mass pr oduction or continuous manufacturing. Yang 

et al. [73] developed continuous -flow simulation models of manufacturing systems using nonlinear differential 

equations. This approach was used to simulate operational dynamics of a multistage assembly line. The 

movement of entities is treated as a fluid flow, buffer stocks as water tanks, the conveyor belt as a water pipe 

and manufacturing stations as valves which control the rates of flow. The continuous -flow models were shown 

to enable faster and more accurate prediction of aggregate manufacturing performance than DES counterparts. 

In addition , simulation optimization [74] can be integrated with the wealth of sensor data for manufacturing 

process modeling and decision support .

## C. IoT Manufacturing Applications 

Fig. 5 shows Google trend comparisons of the popularity levels of “cloud manufacturing”, “industrial 

internet of things”, and “cyber -physical systems” from 07/01/2011 to 08/01/2017. The three terms receive 

increasing attention over the past six years. In particular, industrial I oT yield s the fastest increase over the 

past three years. In this section, we will present a review of IoT manufacturing applications in the following    

> Fig. 5: Google trend comparisons of popularity levels of “cloud manufacturing”, “industrial internet of
> things”, and “cyber -physical systems” from 07/01/2011 to 08/01/2017. The popularity score represents
> search interest relative to the highest point on the chart for the given time in the world.
> 45
> 29 31
> Time
> Popularity Score

12 

categories: IoT -based cloud manufacturing , cyber -physical manufacturing, energy efficiency management, 

operations management, safety and ergonomics, as well as supply chain and logistics. 

IoT -based cloud manufacturing : IoT fuels increasing interests to design and develop new system 

infrastructures that integrates WSNs and cloud computing into manufacturing settings. For example, Tao et 

al. [75] de velop ed an architecture of IoT -enabled cloud manufacturing system (i.e., CCIoT -CMfg). Th is four -

layer system provides an opportunity for cloud -based manufacturing service generation, management and 

applications. Georgakopoulos [76] sketched a road map to harness the power of IoT and cloud computing to 

enhance manufacturing operations and realize the smart factory . IoT and cloud computing are used to facilitate 

the real -time monitoring of key plant performance indices, improve productivity, optimal ly manage inventory 

level, and improve plant -to -customer traceability. Lin et al. [77] developed a five -stage approach to improve 

the predictive maintenance of equipment and identif y the root causes of yield loss , which is named as advanced 

manufacturing cloud of things ( AMCoT ). Zhang et al. [78] proposed a n IoT framework for real -time data 

acquisition and integration , which aims to increase information visib ility in the enterprise layer, workshop 

floor layer , and machine layer for better decision s in manufacturing execution. Internet -based data flow and 

cloud database in the IoT context effectively facilitate mutual interactions between humans and machines .

Cloud computing and analytics can help resolve complex decision -making problems in manufacturing .

Cyber -physical manufacturing systems : The term “cyber -physical manufacturing” is also used in 

the literature to show the interrelated technologies of IoT , manufacturing and cyber -physical systems .

Monostori et al. [79] thoroughly reviewed virtual (i.e., computer science and communication technology) 

and physical (material science and technology) systems in the field of manufacturing. The authors suggested 

that cyber -physical manufacturing systems allow adaptive schedulin g in production planning, anticipative 

maintenance strategy, and adaptive production control. Thramboulidis and Christoulakis [80] proposed a 

UML -based framework (i.e., UML4IoT) to integrate cyber -physical components into the IoT -based 

manufacturing environment. Such a framework automates the process of generating the IoT -compliant layer 

allowing both new and legacy cyber -physical components to exploit the IoT connectivity. Tao et al. proposed 

the IIHub system to support online generation of manufacturing services using encapsulation templates [81] .

Particle Swarm Optimization algorithms have also been developed to solve the problem of multi -objective 

MGrid resource service composition and optimal -selection [82, 83] . Babiceanu and Seker [84] investigated 

trends in cyber -physical manufacturing system s. They reviewed current applications of virtualization, cloud -

based service s, and big data analytics in manufacturing settings, and suggested that predictive manufacturing 

will be an important outcome of the manufacturing cyber -physical system. In addition, Adamson et al. [85] 

presented the concept of feature -based manufacturing for adaptive equipment control and resource -task 

matching in a distributed and collaborative manufacturing cyber -physical system. 

Energy efficiency management : IoT is also utilized for the optimal management of energy efficiency 

in manufactu ring . Qin et al. [86] implemented IoT to optimize energy consumption in additive manufacturing. 

An IoT -based framework was developed to monitor and analyze energy consumption in the selective laser 

sintering process and a control system was created to optimize each build and reduce the energy of the entire 

process. Tan et al. [87] used IoT for the real -time monitoring of energy efficiency on manufacturing shop 

floors. Energy data were collected and transmitted wirelessly for analysis and feedback , allowing the detection 

of abnormal energy consumption patterns. The proposed system enables the application of best energy 

management practice to day -to -day operations. Shaikh et al. [88] investigated enabling technologies to achiev e

green IoT. Technologies such as RFID, sensor network, and internet were reviewed and their relationship with 

energy consumption and the environment highlighted. IoT applications were also classified by their impact on 

the environment. In addition, Tao et al. [89] integrated IoT in to the evaluation of energy -saving and emission 

reduction (ESER). An IoT -enabled system for ESER life cycle assessment was proposed, harnessing the 

powerful perception ability of IoT for real -time data collection and management. The system facilitates the 

collection of energy consumption and environmental impact data generated over the entire life cycle of 

manufacturing, and realizes effective data integration between the ESER evaluation system and the existing 

enterprise information systems. 

Manu facturing operations management: Rymaszewska [90] studied the effect of IoT on the product -

service systems of manufacturing industry. Because IoT provides opportunit ies to access end -users’ 

operations, it helps manufacturing companies to achieve closer and better proximity to customers and change 

their products accordingly. As such, the IoT -aided s ystem i s able to provide the best possible level of service 13 

to end users. Li et al. [91] designed an IoT -based predictive maintenance system for equipment used in coal 

mines. The system incorporates sensors monitoring variables such as vibration and air pressure to collect 

operation al data and transmit them wirelessly to remote servers. Operators can use mobile devices to access 

the data collected and respond to malfunction s of the equipment. Xu and Chen [92] developed an IoT -based 

dynamic production scheduling framework for just -in -time manufacturing. The system performs real -time 

resource status monitoring and dynamic scheduling, helping manufacturers to manipulate production 

schedules dynamically to maximize production outputs with limited resources. Ding et al. [93] developed an 

approach to allocate sensors optimally in a multi -station assembly process. By adopting a state -space model 

and backward -propagation strategy, the distributed sensor system can improve product quality and reduce 

process downtime. Ding et al. [94] conducted a thorough review of state -of -the -art practices, and investigated 

the optimal design of distributed sensing systems for quality and productivity improvement. 

Safety and ergonomics : There are also many research effort s focus ing on the design of IoT systems for 

safety and ergonomics in the manufacturing industry . Boos et al. [95] investigated the use of IoT to address 

accountability challenges in pharmaceutical manufacture rs. Multiple dimensions of accountability (i.e. 

visibility, responsibility and liability) and control (i.e. transparency, predictability and influence) were studied 

and a framework was proposed to integrate accountability and control capability in the context of IoT. Sun et 

al. [96] implemented an IoT -based dam monitoring and pre -alarm system to deal with tailings disposal and 

prevent the failure of tailing dam s. Podgorski et al. [97] designed a conceptual framework for risk management 

of occupational safety. A framework is proposed for dynamic and personalized occupational risk management, 

which can continuous ly assess risks in real time, and monitor the risk level of each worker individually. 

Environmental and workers’ physiological parameters, as well as interaction s between workers, the 

environment and smart physical objects can also be monitored. Guo et al. [98] presented an opportunistic IoT 

system based on ad hoc , opportunistic networking devices using short -range radio techniques such as Wi -Fi 

and Bluetooth. The system demonstrates an inherent relationship between human s and the opportunistic 

connection s of smart things. It enables information forwarding and dissemination within the opportunistic 

communities that are formed based on the movement and opportunistic contact of human s. Shirehjini and 

Semsar [99] developed a mobile 3D user interface to access the IoT -based smart environment. The 3D user 

interface creates a logical link between physical devices and their virtual representation, allowing users to 

control the amount and manner in which the IoT automates the environment. In addition, Cheng et al. [100] 

used n onintrusive real -time worker location sensing and physiological status monitoring technology to monitor 

the activity (i.e., unsafe behavior s) of construction workers. The proposed system allows the remote 

monitoring of construction workers ’ safety performance by fusing their location and physical strain data .

Supply chain and logistics: “Physical Internet” is a n IoT -related concept proposed in the domain of 

manufacturing supply chain and logistics. Meller et al. [101] contributed to the Physical Internet (PI) by 

developing a road -based PI transit center to efficiently and sustainably transfer trailers from one truck to 

another. The design of PI transit center was evaluated using key performance indicators. Cheng et al. [102] 

used complex networks and IoT to address challenges in matching the supply and demand of manufacturing 

resources. IoT technology was used to realize the intelligent perception and access of various manufacturing 

resources and capabilities. Reaidy et al [103] proposed an IoT -based platform to fulfi ll orders in a collaborative 

warehouse environment. RFID technology was incorporated into an IoT infrastructure to manage decentralized 

warehouses, improving the competitiveness of warehouses in a dynamic environment and accelerating the 

adoption of these concepts and technologies in warehouses. Qu et al. [104] developed a dynamic production 

logistic synchronization to deal with the dynamics of production logistics processes. IoT technology was used 

to capture the execution dynamics and cloud computing was also incorporated to deal with various dynamics 

systematically . Fan et al. [105] studied the use of RFID technology to manage inventory inaccuracy in a supply 

chain. The authors assume d a uniform ly distributed demand, and considered factors including fixed investment 

cost, tag price and shrinkage recovery rate to analyze both RFID and non -RFID cases in both centralized and 

decentralized supply chain s. Qu et al. [104] designed a cost -effective IoT solution for production logistic 

execution processes with system dynamics. Using sensitivity analysis, optimal IoT solutions were evaluated 

and analyzed to provide guidance for IoT implementation. Internal and external production logistic processes 

were combined into an integrated structure to offer a generic system dynamics approach. Hwang et al. [106] 

employed IoT technology to deal with large fluctuations in demand. An IoT -based performance model was 

proposed, defining both manufacturing processes and performance indicator formulas. Key Performance 

Indicators of the overall effectiveness of the equipment were selected to construct an IoT -based production 

performance model. In addition, Zhou et al. [107] discussed supply chain management in the era of IoT , and 14 

provided a review of pertinent papers about business models, architecture for IoT -enabled intelligent decision 

support systems, the role of IoT technology , and IoT deployment for decision making in production, transport, 

and service provider selection, and RFID -based inventory management. 

In addition to academic research, industr ial organizations have increasingly invested in new IoT 

technologies for process monitoring, operation optimization, fault detection, and optimal control. Table III 

show s a representative list of companies that implement IoT solutions in industrial case studies . Note that most 

of examples are for marketing purpose s, and more research is urgently needed for IoT system optimization, 

data modeling, and cybersecurity and so on. 

Table II I. IoT industrial case studies 

Company  Details 

Vale 

Fertilizantes 

Vale use d the GE Predix platform to improve maintenance strategies and asset reliability, avoid ing 25 days of lost production 

in one year and resulting in a savings of $1.4 million. Corrective maintenance was reduced to zero between 2014 and 2015, 

and weak acid flow is now above 13 cubic meters per hour. 

Link:  https://www.ge.com/digital/stories/vale -fertilizantes -saves -million -production -losses -asset -performance -management 

BMW 

BMW uses Amazon AWS for its car -as -a-sensor (CARASSO) that collects sensor data to give drivers dynamically updated 

map information. By running on AWS, CARASSO can adapt to rapidly changing load requirements. By 2018 CARASSO is 

expected to process data collected by a fleet of 100,000 vehicles traveling more t han eight billion kilometers. 

Link:  https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case -studies/bmw/ 

Sandvik 

Coromant 

Sandvik develops new predictive analytics on the Microsoft Azure platform that connects with in -house shop floor control 

tools to collect the machine data, tool data, and send them to Azure for real -time analysis using machine learning 

algorithms, as well as process optimization in real -time and the set -up of predictiv e maintenance schedules and alarms. 

Link:  https://customers.microsoft.com/en -us/story/sandvik -coromant -process -manufacturing -sweden 

Toyota Tsusho 

Based on Amazon AWS , the company launche d a traffic information broadcasting system TSquare , which provides users 

real -time traffic data in Bangkok and 6 suburb an provinces. AWS helps process large amounts of traffic data in a scalable 

and reliable way. 

Link:  https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case -studies/toyota -tsusho/ 

Samsung 

The company develop ed S-NET Cloud based on Microsoft Azure for remote energy management of air conditioners. The 

system saves energy by keeping cooling and heating efficient , using the system air -conditioner sensor , operational data and 

indoor environmental information. Further, the S -NET system detects equipment malfunction s and performs remote 

maintenance and management in an integrated manner, using real -time data analytics. 

Link:  https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en -ca/articles/industries/manufacturing -and -resources/remote -energy -management -

solution -based -microsoft -azure -iot/ 

Cummins Power 

Generation 

Cummins develop ed a Cummins PowerCommand Cloud on Microsoft Azure , which is a cloud -based remote monitoring 

solution for generators and power systems. The system can monitor millions of power systems and generators worldwide, 

thereby improving services, saving lives, and ultimately creating more innovative products that improve quality of life. 

Link:  https://customers.microsoft.com/en -us/story/keeping -the -power -on -when -you -need -it -most 

Echelon 

Echelon develop ed an adaptive streetlight control system on the IBM Watson IoT platform . The system boosts energy and 

operational savings of high -efficiency lighting systems through adaptive lighting control. This helps city managers to take 

advantage of smart controls that adjust street lighting based on real -time weather data as well as ac tivity levels or time of 

day. Link:  http://news.echelon.com/press -release/corporate/echelon -enables -outdoor -lighting -enhance -public -safety -

through -ibm -watson 

Marathon 

Petroleum 

Marathon collects data for analy sis on the GE Predix platform , and develops collaborative strategy for optimizing the asset 

performance management and optimization. The IoT technology helps Marathon with the service, support, and flexible 

program design necessary for meeting its ongoing needs. Link:  https://www.ge.com/digital/stories/marathon -petroleum -

develops -collaborative -strategy -optimizing -apm 

Daimler 

Daimler has built a Detroi t Connect system on Microsoft Azure to collect performance data from vehicles on the road and 

store them in Azure. Fleet managers can view complete fault -event details through the Detroit Connect portal and quickly 

know when a fault -event has occurred. This helps increase flexibility and reduce costs, and build long -lasting relationships 

with its customers. Link:  https://customers.microsoft.com/en -us/story/daimlertrucks 

INNOVYT 

This company develop ed IoT solutions on Microsoft Azure and Amazon AWS platforms for real time fleet tracking, alerts 

and advanced analytics of driving behavior and insights for improving fleet. Link:  http://innovyt.com/azure -big -data -

solution/ 

LightInTheBox 

The company uses Amazon AWS to build a highly available website for its customers and save on operating expenses. IoT 

technology makes it possible to accommodate any transaction, anywhere, and enables the adjustment of computing 

resources as needed to reduce costs. Link :  https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case -studies/LightInTheBox/ 

TraceLink 

This company develop ed the Life Science Cloud platform to ensure compliance throughout the global life science network 

and global pharmaceutical supply chain. AWS helps the company to fully support the requirements of hundreds of 

pharmaceutical companies and their partners. Link:  https://www.tracelink.com/insights/the -tracelink -life -sciences -cloud -

community 

# IV . Case Study - IoT and Cloud Computing to Build Cyber -physical 

# Manufacturing Networks 

Io MT integrates sensors, computing units, physical objects (e.g., machines and tools), and services into 

a network , thereby forming the backbone of a smart manufacturing system. The IoMT network helps a large 

number of manufacturing “things” to communicate and exchange data . With massive data readily available, 

IoMT presents an unprecedented opportunity to improve the “smartness” of a manufacturing enterprise. 15 

However, realizing the full potential of IoMT depends on the development of new data -driven methods and 

tools for smart manufacturing. As IoMT is relatively new, existing methodologies fall short of addressing the 

internet -like IoMT structures and big data gathered from every corner of a manufacturing enterprise . It is 

imperative to develop n ew I oMT analytical methods and tools for smart manufacturing , e.g. 

(i) Data Management : IoMT communicates large volume s of data at high velocity, calling for new data 

management techniques (e.g., data access, data structure, data compression, data synthesis, data traceability ,

data retrieval). It is worth mentioning that there are significant differences between manufacturing data and 

data from other domains (e.g., computer science, environmental science, healthcare systems). Manufacturing 

systems involve machines, controllers, robots, sensors, human operators, and elements of other related 

business units such as inventory, supply chain and management. Data from the network of all manufacturing 

things show new structures and properties that require efficient handling and storage. Also, data pertinent to 

specific operations should be efficiently and effectively traced and retrieved to serve the purpose s of 

manufacturing analytics. 

(ii) Information Processing: IoMT data contain rich information on fine -grained detail s of

manufacturing systems. There is an urgent need to process the data to extract useful information pertinent to 

the manufacturing enterprise – from individual machines through networked processes and complete product 

life cycles to supply chains. However, data availability does not imply information readiness but requires the 

development of new information -processing methodologies in the IoMT context. The first stage is data 

representation to describe the data in alternative domains (e.g., frequency domain, wavelet domain, and state -

space domain) so as to reveal hidden information . An effective representation scheme will make statistical 

measures of salient patterns in the data much simpler in the transformed domain. The second stage is feature 

extraction to characterize and quantify specific patterns in the IoMT data. Based on the effect sparsity 

principle [108] , there should be a parsimonious set of features sensitive to the state variables to be estimated 

instead of extraneous noise. Finally, information visualization is necessary to communicate features and 

patterns efficiently and clearly to end -users through graphics and animations. 

(iii) Decision Making: As shown in Fig. 6, IoMT and big data lea d to a new generation of cyber -physical 

manufacturing systems. The physical world is reflected in cyberspace by data -driven information processing, 

modeling and simulation. Analytics in cyberspace exploit s the acquired knowledge and useful information 

from data to feed optimal actions (or control schemes) back to the physical world . As mentioned above in 

section II.C, m anufacturing decisions of interest include machine monitoring, fault diagnosis, predictive 

maintenance, inventory optimization, supply chain management, and safety management to name but a few. 

The “smartness” level in manufacturing depends to a great extent on cyber -physical integration and 

interaction. 

In this section, we present a case study of large -scale IoMT machine information processing, network 

modeling, and condition monitoring. This case study is not comprehensive but serves as an example to 

leverage the internet -like connection of IoMT machines to build a virtual machine network . As sensor 

observations contain rich information describing machine s’ status, this study focuses on the dissimilarity 

measures between machine signatures (e.g., power profiles from discrete -part manufacturing ). Then , each 

machine is rep re sented as a node of a large -scale network in cyberspace , and node attributes are machine 

signatures. The edge link and weight depend on the similarity and dissimilarity of node attributes. However,     

> Cyber World Physical World
> Data
> Actions
> Fig. 6: Cyber -physical manufacturing systems. The manufacturing enterprise is reflected in the cyber space
> through data, and analytics run in the cyber space feed the actions back to the physical world.

16 

the dimensionality of machine signatures is high and the number of machines is la rge in the IoMT context. 

Therefore , we also pr esent an idea of cloud computing for efficient ne twork modeling of large -scale I oMT

machines in the cyberspace , which will be detailed in the following subsections .

## IV.A. Physical Machine Networks – Process Monitoring and Control 

This case study presents our preliminary studies of stochastic network and parallel algorithms to build a 

large -scale network of IoMT machines in cyberspace . Notably, most traditional methods focus on the 

conformance to reference signatures (i.e., “standard” or “normal” ones). However, network models are 

constructed and optimized using pairwise comparisons of machine profiles. The dissimilarity matrix 

(consist ing of the dissimilarity between each pair of profiles) is obtained from the pairwise comparison, rather 

than from a column in a reference comparison. For conventional reference comparison s, the computational 

workload is low, and easy to implement. The difference against the reference profile can be directly used as 

an indicator to determine if the current profile is normal or not. However, it is necessary to empirically and/or 

statistically establish a “normal” signature from a historical record of profiles. On the contrary, network 

modeling does not need to establish a “normal” signature but rather leverages the pairwise dissimilarity 

information to autom atically group large numbers of profiles into homogeneous clusters. As such, the 

proposed network approach will provide a better representation of information in the data and further offers 

opportunities for visual analysis of machine conditions. 

The proposed machine -network model s are generally applicable to monitoring P2P dynamics in 

manufacturing processes. In other words, one machine repeatedly manufactures the same type of discrete 

part in large quantities ( the high volume, low mix scenario ). Further, P2P network models can be used for 

different types of parts. For example, if there are two different kinds of part , then power profiles from the 

same part will have a higher level of similarity than those from different parts. This will lead to another 

application of product classification - group parts into homogeneous clusters. Network visualization will 

provide categorization of parts, evaluation of energy consumption, and further help production planning. For 

the low volume high mix scenario , network models can be potentially applicable to product classification or 

detection of process characteristics (e.g., types of materials, machining procedures, and specific tools used). 

For example, M2M networks can help to extract useful information about machine utilization, power usage, 

and condition monitoring, which will help further optimize factory operations, reduc ing equipment downtime 

and maintenance costs. Virtual machine networks have great potential to shift current manufacturing 

practices towards globalized production optimization and management. IoMT energy management provides 

a major opportunity to optimize the energy consumption and realize green and sustainable manufacturing. 

## IV.B. Virtual Machine Network s

Virtual manufacturing overcomes many practical limitations in the physical world and provides a greater 

level of flexibility to optimize a variety of manufacturing actions (e.g., production planning, quality control, 

maintenance scheduling) in cyberspace . As manufacturing is highly complex and involves multifarious 

elements, there are potentially several types of virtual manufacturing networks including (a) machine 

network s; (b) supply chain network s; (c) human resource network s; and (d) customer network s to name a 

few. In this present study, we focus on the development of virtual machine network s. It may be noted that 

social network s are essentially an internet of people, and people can communicate with each other easily 

through a network. However, it is easy to build a virtual machine network but difficult to enable 

communication between networked machines. Here, we propose to build virtual machine -to -machine 

network s by allowing each machine to exchange real -time attributes with each other (e.g., machine signatures, 

profiles, events). As such, machines can form a community or a group in the network that collectively 

provide s a subnetwork of machines with similar attributes. 

For example, power profiles are a machine signature that describes the energy consumption of successive 

operations in a discrete -manufacturing process. Fig. 6 (right) shows that IoMT -enabled machines 

communicate power profiles with a distinct morphology and pattern during the cutting phase. Some of them 

show nominal patterns (e.g., M2 and M3), whereas others have larger variations (e.g., M1 and M6) and 

elevated patterns (e.g., M4 and M5). Note that machine signatures may vary due to a number of factors such 

as the product, machine type, procedure, and anomalies. In the large -scale IoMT context, each machine can 

communicate its attributes (e.g., power profiles) for e very discrete part produced, thereby allowing the 

quantification of both part -to -part (P2P) and machine -to -machine (M2M) dissimilarities in the attributes. 17 

Such an I oMT-based virtual machine network provides great opportunit ies for i) Condition monitoring and 

quality control : Machines with similar conditions can be grouped into the same cluster. The structure of a 

virtual machine network not only provides useful information on the machine status and utilization statistics 

but also offers the opportunity of profile -based machine clustering , product categorization, and online quality 

control. ii ) Planning and scheduling : The structure of a virtual machine network var ies dynamically because 

machine profiles chang e over time. Such a dynamic network can further help optimize maintenance decision s,

manufacturing planning, and scheduling. For example, we can proactively assign a machine’s workload to 

other (normal) machines and schedule maintenance, when a machine is moving towards the “machine failure” 

cluster in the network. ii ) Smart manufacturing : For a large -scale manufacturing system, advanced sensing 

increases information visibility and helps cope with high -le vel complexity in the system. I oMT provides an 

opportunity to realize the virtual machine network for smart manufacturing. For example, machines 

communicate with each other to report their status and exchange information for optimal planning and 

scheduling. This will substantially help to create value from data, optimize factory operations and reduce 

maintenance costs and equipment downtime. 

## IV.C. Network Modeling and Analytics 

Advanced sensing in the large -scale Io MT context communicates rich data streams . As shown in Fig. 6,

IoMT connects a large number of machines in the manufacturing system and generates overwhelmingly big 

data. For an individual machine, power profiles can be collected during the production of discrete part s.

When a large number of parts are produced, the IoMT will generate tens of thousands of power profiles. P2P 

varia tions in power profiles provide a wealth of information pertinent to machine conditions and production 

performance. This will enable engineers to make proactive decisions to adjust process es and maint ain 

machine s, improving the quality of products and reducing the re -work rate. For a group of machines, IoMT 

sensing provides an unprecedented opportunity to embody machines in a large -scale network to enable smart 

manufacturing. However, the number of machines and data volume pose significant challenges for the 

construction and optimization of a cyber -physical machine network. There is an urgent need to extract 

pertinent knowledge about manufacturing operations (i.e., from one machine to a group of machines ) and 

then exploit the knowledge acquired for decision making . Realizing the promise of Io MT depends to a 

greater extent on information -processing capability. Little has been done to address the fundamental issues 

important to big data analytics in the large -scale IoMT context. In this case study , we propose to develop 

virtual machine network models from the following perspectives :

(1) Customized P2P network : It is not un common for IoMT sensing to collect long -term monitoring 

data from an individual machine . As shown in Fig. 7, during the production of a part , the signal waveform 

changes significantly in different segments (i.e., different stages of the manufacturing operation). Between 

two different part s, the signals are similar to each other but with variations. Therefore, w e propose to develop 

a network model of stochastic P2P dynamics for customiz ed monitoring of machine conditions , where each 

part is represented as a network node and the node attributes are profile data for this part .

(2) Population M2M network : There are also similarities and dissimilarities in profile patterns 

between two different machines . Therefore, we propose to develop a virtual M2M network model, where 

each node represents an individual machine and node attributes are the dominant profile patterns or 

aggregated properties . The choice of node attributes is highly dependent on domain -specific applications. 

Such a n M2M network will help engineers and managers to identify machine communities that share similar 

operational conditions , study machine variations within each community, and pinpoint an individual machine 

in one of the communities for monitoring and maintenance purposes .

(3) Parallel graph analytics : However, such network modeling is computationally expensive due 

to the population size and data volume. Traditional serial -computing schemes are limited in the ir ability to 

represent network s efficient ly and provide real -time analytics in the Io MT setting. Note that the power of 

Io MT lies in the inclusion of more machine s to form a network topology, links, and communities. Hence, 

we propose to develop parallel algorithms for efficient network modeling and optimization of the large -scale 

Io MT , as well as further develop network -based predictive analytics for smart manufacturing .

In the following four subsections, we will discuss the technical steps towards the construction and 

optimization of virtual machine networks (i.e., pattern matching, network modeling, predictive analytics , and 18 

parallel computing ). These steps are not meant to be comprehensive or exclusive, but rather serve as initial 

ideas for IoMT network modeling. 

## IV .C.1 Pattern Matching 

Fig. 7a shows the CAD file and power profiles for a machining operation. The variation in energy 

consumption can be due to machine parameters (e.g., rotations per minute, depth of cut, and feed rate), tool 

conditions, materials properties, and other uncertainty factors . Fig. 7b shows the part -to -part (P2P) power 

profiles when a welding machine cyclically produces discrete parts with the same design . Although t his 

investigation uses power consumption data as an illustration , there may be other profiles of interest such as 

acoustic emission, cutting force, or vibration. Note that profile patterns are similar to each other because the 

parts have the same design but have variations (i.e., due to machine and process variations) . Because profile 

patterns are very pertinent to process dynamics , pattern matching will provide a good opportunity to monitor 

the condition of machines and tools. Fig. 7 shows there are pattern variations between the power profiles 

from Part 1 to Part 5, although they are all of the same design . Conventional methods focus on the comparison 

between the current profile and reference profile s (i.e., “standard” or “normal” ones). Here, w e propose to 

perform a pairwise comparison of machine profile s using either P2P or M2M network methods . Note that a 

dissimilarity matrix ( that is, the dissimilarity between each pair of profile s) is obtained from pairwise 

comparison, rather than only being a column in reference comparison. However, two profiles can be 

misaligned due to discrete sampling and phase shift. For e.g. , Part s 1-5 in Fig. 7 show a typical pattern, but 

there are variations in shape, amplitude, and phase. This poses significant challenges to the characterization 

and quantification of pattern interrelationships (i.e., similarity and dissimilarity) between profiles. 

In the literature , such interrelationships are estimated by methods such as correlation and mutual 

information. Note that correlation is a second -order quantity evaluating merely the linear dependency 

between two profiles  𝑥 1(𝑡 ) and  𝑥 2(𝑡 ). It should be noted that linear correlation cannot capture the nonlinear 

interdependence between variables adequately . Mutual information  𝑀𝐼 𝑥 1,𝑥 2 characterizes and quantifies 

both linear and nonlinear correlations but requires stationarity in the computation, i.e., 

𝑀𝐼 𝑥 1,𝑥 2 = ∑ ∑ 𝑃𝑟 (𝑥 1, 𝑥 2)log ( 𝑃𝑟 (𝑥 1, 𝑥 2)

𝑃𝑟 (𝑥 1)𝑃𝑟 (𝑥 2))

> 𝑥 1𝑥 2

(1) 

Yun et al. [109] developed an information theoretic approach that used mutual information to measure the 

nonlinear correlation between variables (i.e., analogous to profiles) for variable clustering and predictive 

modeling. Gang et al. [61] proposed nonlinear coupling analysis of variables by exploiting cross recurrences 

between them . Th is nonlinear measure is commonly used in neuroscience to study the interrelationship           

> Fig. 7:(a) The CAD file and power profiles from the machining operation; (b) P2P variations in current profiles
> when a welding machine produces parts with the same design .
> (a)
> Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 Part 4 Part 5

# …

> (b)

19 

between neurons. In addition, Zhou et al. [110] investigated the discrete wavelet transform of cycle -based 

profiles and developed a wavelet control chart for process monitoring. 

In order to measure the morpholog ic dissimilarity between profile data , Yang et al. [111] proposed one -

dimensional and multi -dimensional dynamic time warping (see Fig. 8). Note that profile alignment is 

imperative to measure pattern dissimilarity. If we do not use the warping approach and measure the difference 

between part profiles directly , this will contaminate useful information and will not yield meaningful res ults 

in most cases . However , dynamic time warping aligns two signatures optimally and yields meaningful results 

by comparing the morphology of corresponding segments. Given two profile s 𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ), 𝑡 = 1, 2, …,  𝑛 1 and 

𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ), 𝑡 = 1, 2, …,  𝑛 2, the dissimilarity between  𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ) and  𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ) is then measured as ∑ ‖𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 𝑖 ) −(𝑡 𝑖 ,𝑡 𝑗 )∈𝜁 

𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 𝑗 )‖. To find the optimal warping path  𝜁 , a dynamic programming algorithm iteratively searches: 

𝑑 (𝑖 , 𝑗 ) = 𝑚𝑖𝑛 (

𝑑 (𝑖 , 𝑗 − 1) + 𝑤 (𝑖 , 𝑗 )

𝑑 (𝑖 − 1, 𝑗 − 1) + 𝑤 (𝑖 , 𝑗 )

𝑑 (𝑖 − 1, 𝑗 ) + 𝑤 (𝑖 , 𝑗 )

) (2) 

where the initial condition is  𝑑 (1,1) = 𝑤 (1,1) = ‖𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 1) − 𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 1)‖ and a window size constraint is 

|𝑖 − 𝑗 | < 𝑟  . The normalized dissimilarity between  𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ) and  𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ (𝑡 ) are obtained as  ∆(𝒙 1⃗⃗⃗⃗ , 𝒙 2⃗⃗⃗⃗ ) =

𝑑 (𝑛 1, 𝑛 2) (𝑛 1 + 𝑛 2)⁄ . As a result, machine profiles are optimally aligned for the measurement of pattern 

dissimilarities . If pattern matching is performed for every pair of profiles, then a warping matrix will be 

generated to provide pairwise similarity and dissimilarity among profiles. 

## IV .C.2 Network Modeling 

Although the warping matrix contains rich information about the variations in machine profiles (i.e., either 

P2P or M2M), it is difficult to use the matrix itself as a predictor in predictive models for manufacturing 

applications. There is an urgent need to develop novel methods and tools that will enable and assist the 

exploitation of dissimilarity matrices to make optimal decisions in manufacturing. Because these machines 

are networked elements in the manufacturing system, it is natural to use network theory to provide analytical 

method s to study the interrelationship and interactions between machines. The nodes or vertices of such 

networks will be machines and the edges or links will be interactions (i.e., similarity or dissimilarity in 

profiles) between machines. 

The next step is to optimally represent each P2P (or M2M) machine profile as a network node in a high -

dimensional space. The distance between nodes should preserve the dissimilarity between two corresponding 

profiles . Fig. 9 illustrates the network modeling of six machine profile s. A dissimilarity matrix provides 

pertinent information about the variations of machine signatures. By optimizing the location of nodes in the 

network , node -to -node distances preserve the profile -to -profile dissimilarities in the warping matrix of Fig. 

9a. For example, Fig. 9 shows that dissimilarities between M1 and others (M2 -M6) are preserved as the 

Euclidean distance between node M1 and others. Let  𝒔 𝑖  and  𝒔 𝑗  denote the location of  𝑖 𝑡 ℎ and  𝑗 𝑡 ℎ nodes in 

the network and  𝛿 𝑖𝑗  is the dissimilarity between  𝑖 𝑡 ℎ and  𝑗 𝑡 ℎ machine profile s in the warping matrix  ∆. Then, 

the objective function of network modeling can be formulated as: 

min ∑(‖𝒔 𝑖 − 𝒔 𝑗 ‖ − 𝛿 𝑖𝑗 )

> 𝑖 <𝑗

; 𝑖 , 𝑗 ∈ [1, 𝑛 ] (2)   

> Fig. 8 :One -dimensional (a) and three -dimensional dynamic
> time warping for pattern matching
> (a) (b)

20 

where ‖∙‖ can be the Euclidean norm or other distance measures , depending on the specific application. This 

approach represents each power profile as a network node based on the pairwise dissimilarity measures, 

which greatly reduce s the dimensionality of the data and thereby identifies the “best data” to represent the 

machine ’s condition. In the presence of a small number of machines (or profiles) , optimizing the location s

of network nodes  𝒔 𝑖 ’s can be achieved by existing algorithms such as multi -dimensional scaling (MDS) [112] 

and scaling by majorizing a complicated function (SMACOF) [113] . However, the computational complexity 

of MDS is  𝑂 (𝑁 3) because of the centering operation and eigen -decomposition. SMACOF utilizes the 

Guttman transform that consists of a large matrix multiplication. Existing algorithms tend to have limitations 

in addressing the emerging challenges in network modeling of a large -scale IoMT network. 

## IV .C.3 Cloud Computing 

Because serial algorithms often lead to prohibitive computation time in large -scale Io MT, there is an 

urgent need to scale up the algorithm and use large -scale machine learning in cloud computing to complete 

the optimization task collaboratively. Parallel algorithms pipelin e the overall computing task into multiple 

computers (or processors ) for collaborative processing . As shown in Fig. 10, each computer carries out part 

of the computation and works simultaneously with other computers to combine results to build virtual 

machine network s, reducing the computing time significantly . Nowadays, the availability of multi -core CPUs, 

cell processors (e.g., GPUs) , and cloud computing make parallel algorithms easily implementable with off -

the -shelf strategies such as multi -thread ing and single -instruction -multiple -data. 

Due to the high dimensionality of IoMT data, second -order algorithms are often difficult and even 

prohibitive . It is preferable to use first -order approaches such as gradient -based algorithms . Also , large 

volume s of data pose significant challenges to optimization algorithms as each iteration must process the 

entire data set . The stochastic gradient approach is well suited to handle IoMT data because each iteration or 

subtask processes a limited subset of samples . For convex functions, stochastic gradient approaches are 

shown to guarantee convergence in most cases. Therefore, Kan et al. [114] proposed to integrate stochastic 

gradient algorithms with batch learning, i.e., mini -batch stochastic network algorithms, to model virtual 

machine networks. As opposed to considering one sample at a time, mini -batch stochastic network algorithms 

handle multiple samples (i.e., a mini -batch) simultaneously in each iteration. See more details in [114] . Once          

> (a) (b)
> Fig. 9: (a) Dissimilarity matrix o f six machine profiles; (b) A network model with node -to -node distances
> preserving the profile -to -profile dissimilarity matrix in (a).
> Physical Machine
> Network
> …
> Combine Results
> Virtual Machine Network
> Fig. 10: Map reduce and cloud computing to optimize the virtual machine network

21 

the virtual machine network is constructed, changes in machine conditions are encoded as network dynamics. 

We will discuss IoMT network analytics in more detail in the next subsection. 

## IV.C.4 Predictive Analytics 

Virtual machine networks provide a new paradigm for explor ing future physical spaces and perform 

predictive analytics towards an anticipatory manufacturing enterprise. Network analytics are generally 

applicable to provide decision support for future production and market variations . Here, virtual machine 

networks provide a new means of study ing the manufacturing system using a network structure and topology. 

Node attributes (e.g., coordinates of nodes) , once optimized, can be used as features for condition 

monitoring and predictive modeling. For example, if P2P variations of a single machine are monitored in the 

IoMT system , each node will represent the operational profile of one discrete part . If the node is located a way 

from the cluster of normal condition in the virtual machine network , maintenance service s need to be 

scheduled to prevent machine failure. For a group of machine s (i.e., M2M networks) , each node represents a 

machine or its signature (e.g., power profiles, features, or patterns). Predictive models can be constructed to 

predict the machine ’s condition based on its node attributes . If node attributes show the machine condition 

has a high probability of being abnormal, engineers can re -assign its jobs to other machines and schedule 

maintenance. In the state of the art , there are various modeling approaches available for predictive 

applications , including linear regression models [115] , neural networks [116] , self -organizing networks [117, 

118] and particle filtering [119] Practitioners can select an optimal predictive modeling approach based on 

the complexity of data and requirements of processing speed. 

Machines are also interconnected, and each machine has its nominal profile patterns and temporal 

variations. However, abnormal events in one machine may cause a cascade of follow -up events on 

neighboring machines in the network. In the social network, s ociologists show that social connections and 

interactions have significant impacts on a person 's behavior [120, 121] . Network edges (or links) represent 

the connections between machines, thereby providing important information about the behaviors of 

manufacturing systems. It is worth investigating whether the organization of links in large -scale IoMT 

networks are random or follow specific principles for unique properties or orders. The link and topological 

patterns facilitate the detection of community structures. There will be small variations in node properties 

within the same community but large variations between two different communities . Virtual machine 

network s provide a graphical representation of large numbers of machines and also groups machines with 

similar conditions into homogeneous clusters. This enables condition monitoring of machines using visual 

analy tics of the data. For example, we can pinpoint each profile from a machine in the network clusters for 

monitoring or classification purposes. Raghavan et al. [122] developed a label propagation algorithm (LPA) 

that is a near linear time algorithm to effectively and efficiently identify community structures in large -scale 

IoMT networks. LPA is widely used and is a part of software packages like R, Python, Java, and iGraph 

libraries. As natural networks are often uncontrolled and exhibit self -organizing behavior, self -organized 

M2M networks may be investigated further to increase robustness against external and internal uncertainty 

in manufacturing. 

Further, network topology has been shown to influence the performance of processes such as event 

formation, information diffusion , navigation , search and others. Topological measures that are widely used 

to exploit meaningful information in networked processes include node degree, link density, average path 

length, network diameter and clustering coefficient. A comprehensive review of network topological 

measures c an be found in [123, 124] . Although topological measures are important, they may be in sufficient 

to describe specific functionalities of the machine networks . There is a need to unearth patterns of node 

attribute, link organization, community structure, and network topology from the large -scale IoMT network. 

For examples, a re there link and topo logical patterns we can exploit to optimize the design of facilit ies ?

Which community does the machine belong to? Are there manufacturing job s that need to be re -assigned ?

Are there preventive maintenance services that can be delivered based on real -time machine conditions ?

# V. IoT and Cyber security in Manufacturing 

With the rapid advance of IOT, it is anticipated that the manufacturing industry will see more and more 

IoT -based devices, applications and services in the next few years. As manufacturing equipment is a part of 

the critical infrastructure for economic growth, they can easily becom e the target of malicious attackers. The 22 

interconnection of IoT devices, cloud database s, and information network s makes the IoT system vulnerable 

to cyber -attacks. Therefore, IoT cybersecurity is of primary concern in smart manufacturing. It is imperative 

to develop new cybersecurity frameworks and methodologies that will help facilitate the widespread adoption 

of I oMT. MTConnect advocates a read -only option when the upper -level MES interacts with the smart 

manufacturing “Things” in the IoT system [27, 28] . In other words, software applications can only read data 

from the network of sensors, machines, controllers in the lower -level PCS system, but cannot write data to 

control or d amage the manufacturing infrastructure. 

As shown in Fig. 11, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) develop ed the 

cybersecurity framework (CSF) for manufacturing implementation [125] . This CSF includes five critical 

components, i.e.,  𝑖 ) Identify : What processes and assets need protection?  𝑖𝑖 ) Protect : What safeguards are 

available?  𝑖𝑖𝑖 ) Detect : What techniques can identify incidents?  𝑖𝑣 ) Respond : What techniques can contain 

the impact of incidents?  𝑣 ) Recove r: What techniques can restore capabilities? This framework can be used 

to measure the performance of different cybersecurity solutions , thereby helping further improve the 

implementation of IoT and cybersecurity systems in manufacturing environments. 

In the past few years, cybers ecuri ty has fueled increasing interest in the manufacturing community . For 

examples, Hutchins et al. [126] proposed a framework to identify vulnerabilities in automotive manufacturing 

systems , which consider s the data flows within a manufacturing enterprise and throughout the supply chain. 

Desmit et al. [127] proposed an intersection mapping approach to identify cyber -physical vulnerabilities and 

predict their influence on intelligent manufacturing systems. Sturm et al. [128] focused on cyber -physical 

vulnerabilities in additive manufacturing (AM) , and made the following recommendations to improve the 

AM cybersecurity , i.e., improv ing software checks; hashing/securing signing/blockchain; improving process 

monitoring; operator training. 

Furthermore, there are a number of innovative techniques to protect the security and privacy of IoMT 

systems including cryptographic solutions, intrusion identification, and blockchain technology. 

Cryptographic solutions : Duan et al. [129] designed a data -centric access control framework to provide 

secure access to smart -grid services in a publish/subscribe model. Seo et al. [130] focused on the develop ment 

of lightweight key management protocols for scalable and distributed authentication. Zhang et al. [131] 

propose a password -authenticated group key exchange protocol and prove its security in a standard model ,

which does not require short passwords to be pre -shared among users. Saxena et al. [132] design ed a

lightweight authentication and key agreement protocol for the long -term evolution (LTE) network to support 

secure and efficient communications between IoT devices and their users. Note that manufacturing data can 

be encrypted locally and in the cloud using the PGP standard [ using entropy generated keys and AES 

encryption] as well as transmitted through communications encrypt ed on the chip by hardware. 

Intrusion Identification : Siboni et al. [133] developed a cyber security testbed framework that allows 

wearable device designers and manufacturers to evaluate the security of the devices in a simulated 

environment. Saeed et al. [134] used random neural networks to develop an intrusion detection and 

prevention scheme for IoT systems . Vincent et al. [135] was inspired by side -channel schemes used to detect 

Trojans in integrated circuits, and then proposed a product/process design approach to enable real -time attack 

detection, i.e., changes to a manufactured part’s intrinsic behavior. Thames et al. [136] developed a 

cyberattack detection algorithm based on ensemble learning with neural networks, and further integrate d

response mechanisms into the cloud -based manufacturing architecture. 

Blockchain Technology : As a new approach to decentralized computation and assets management in 

the BitCoin system , the blockchain technology [137, 138] has promise d to help to address scalability and   

> Identify
> Asset Management;
> Business Environment;
> Governance;
> Risk Assessment;
> Risk Management
> Strategy
> Protect
> Access Control;
> Awareness and
> Training;
> Data Security;
> Protection Procedures;
> Protective Technology
> Detect
> Anomalies & Events;
> Security Check;
> Continuous Monitoring;
> Detection Processes
> Respond
> Response Planning;
> Communications;
> Analysis;
> Mitigation;
> Improvements
> Recover
> System Resilience;
> Recover Planning;
> Improvements;
> Communications
> Fig. 11 :The cybersecurity framework for manufacturing implementation from NIST.

23 

security challenges in IoMT . Ghuli et al. [139] proposed a decentralized system to register and assign IoT 

devices to an owner based on the blockchain technology . Bahga et al. [140] develope d a decentralized, peer -

to -peer platform to implement IoT systems based on the blockchain technology . This platform will enable 

user s in a decentralized, trustless, peer -to -peer network to interact with each other without the need for a 

trusted intermedi ary so as to improve the cyber security of IoT systems. 

# VI. IoT Manufacturing Policies and Strategies 

This section briefly discusses IoT manufacturing policies and strategies from various countries and 

industrial organizations. Such policies and strategies are the main drivers for the development and practical 

implementation of IoT technologies, and play important roles in push ing the paradigm shift towards smart 

manufacturing in the next few decades. Currently, there are many policy initiatives across the world aiming 

to promote smart manufacturing and stimulate economic growth. 

USA : The PCAST * report in 2012 identifie d Advanced Manufacturing as a path towards to revitalizing 

U.S. leadership in manufacturing, creating high -quality jobs, and ensuring national security [141] . Next -

generation manufacturing is envisioned to depend on the effective use and coordination of automation, 

sensing, networking, data, information, and computation. The goal is to enable high -rate, cost -effective, 

repeatable production for practical industrial implementation. In particular, advanc ed sensing, networking 

and process control are identified as key technology area s for smart manufacturing . In the past few years, 

smart manufacturing has attracted significant interest . To build a robust, sustainable R&D infrastructure, 

Manufacturing USA - formerly known as National Network for Manufacturing Innovation - has established 

several networked Manufacturing Innovation Institutes as follows :

• AFFOA (Advanced Functional Fabrics of America):  http://www.rle.mit.edu/fabric/ 

• AIM Photonics (American Institute for Manufacturing Integrated Photonics): 

http://www.aimphotonics.com/ 

• America Makes:  https://americamakes.us/ 

• ARM (Advanced Robotics Manufacturing):  http://www.arminstitute.org/ 

• ARMI (Advanced Regenerative Manufacturing Institute):  http://www.armiusa.org/ 

• CESMII (Clean Energy Smart Manufacturing Innovation Institute):  https://cesmii.org/ 

• DMDII (The Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation Institute):  http://dmdii.uilabs.org/ 

• IACMI (The Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing Innovation):  http://iacmi.org/ 

• LIFT (Lightweight Innovations For Tomorrow):  http://lift.technology/ 

• NextFlex:  http://www.nextflex.us/ 

• NIIMBL (The National Institute for Innovation in Manufacturing Biopharmaceuticals): 

http://www.niimbl.us/ 

• Power America:  http://www.poweramericainstitute.org/ 

• RAPID (Rapid Advancement in Process Intensification Deployment Institute): 

http://processintensification.org/ 

• REMADE (Reducing EMbodied -energy And Decreasing Emissions): 

http://www.rit.edu/gis/remade/index.html 

China : Manufacturing industry in China increasingly faces persistent challenges from environmental 

issues, resource shortage, rising labor costs, and a slowdown in economic growth. As a result, t he “Made in 

China 2025” strategy that began in 2015 to provide a 10 -year action plan to radically transform the 

manufacturing sector. The goal is to turn the country from a quantity manufacturer to a high -end quality 

manufacture r. This strategy targets ten important areas that are vital for economic growth, i.e., information 

technology, aviation, railway equipment, power -grid, new materials, machinery, robotics, maritime 

equipment, energy -saving vehicles, and medical devices . Smart manufacturing is also identified as an 

opportunity for Chin ese manufacturers to take the lead in the global competition. Three directions are 

highlighted to improve the “smartness” level of manufacturing, i.e.,  𝑖 ) Developing new unmanned 

manufacturing systems with smart sensors, industrial robots, RFIDs, control systems, and automated 

production lines ; 𝑖𝑖 ) Realizing the internet -based information infrastructure to effectively and efficiently  

> *President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology

24 

coordinate the manufacturing network;  𝑖𝑖𝑖 ) Developing industrial cloud platforms and big data analytic al tools 

to help manufacturing enterprises make better decisions. The “Made in China 2025” strategy is seeking to 

promote data -driven innovation and smart technologies to pursue sustainable economic growth and upgrade 

China from the largest manufacturer in the world to a pioneering manufacturing power. 

European Union : EU economy relies heavily on the manufacturing sector, which contributes 80% of all 

EU exports. However, the EU economic crisis has led to a decline of manufacturing throughput with more 

than 3.8 million jobs lost between 2009 and 2013. As such, E U Commission has organized several task forces 

to put together action plans to increas e the competitiveness of EU manufacturing , including digitizing 

European industry, factory of the future, smart anything everywhere, and advanced manufacturing for clean 

production . Digital opportunities to make industry smarter that have been identified include the IoT, big data, 

artificial intelligence (AI), additive manufacturing (AM) , robotics, and blockchain technologies . The “factory 

of the future” is a multi -year roadmap (2014 -2020) to realize a smart factory that is clean, highly performing, 

environmental friendly and socially sustainable. The priority of the EU Commission is to digitalize the industry 

to make the best use of new technologies and manufacture high -quality digitalized products or service. A

number of digital innovation hubs have also been established across Europe to help small, medium or large 

companies make the most of digital opportunities. The policies and strategies from the EU Commission are 

complemented and integrated by many national initiatives , for e.g., 

• Germany : Industry 4.0, Smart Service World , High -Tech Strategy 2020 

• Netherlands : Smart Industry 

• Italy : Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 

• Belgium : Made Different , Marshall 4.0, Flanders make 

• France : Alliance Industry of the Future, Industrie du Futur, Nouvelle France Industrielle 

• Spain : Industria Conectada 4.0 

In short, the EU Commission aims to lead a smooth transition to a smart economy , prepare to manufacture 

products & services of the next generation , improve innovation capacity across manufacturing industries , and 

increase the total Gross Domestic Product of the European Uni on. 

In addition, United Kingdom announced the foresight project “Future of Manufacturing ” in 2013 that 

provides the 2013 -2050 strategical plan for the country to adapt to the megatrend of the global manufacturing 

revolution. This foresight project joins other initiatives such as High Value Manufacturing Catapult, Innovate 

UK, and EPSRC Manufacturing the Future to address key challenges on the UK manufacturing sect or , e.g., 

• Adapt to increasing demands for personalized products and services 

• The lack of highly skilled labor well trained in new technologies 

• Sustainable manufacturing that is efficient in the use of materials and energy 

• Digital ize manufacturing to realize the full potential of IoT sensing, big data analytics, intelligent 

systems, 3D printing , robotics, and new materials .

Furthermore, General Electric, Cisco, Intel, AT&T, and IBM founded the “Industrial Internet 

Consortium (IIC) ” in 2014 to shape the future of industrial IoT systems . Currently, the IIC consists of more 

than 258 academic and industrial members who have invest ed heavily in IoT and CPS related projects. Thus 

far, the IIC has put together over 20 testbeds to demonstrate the implementation of IoT systems and data 

analytics to provide transformational outcomes in the industry. It is expected that IoT applications in 

manufacturing and factory settings will generate $1.2 to $3.7 trillion annually by 2025 [5] . Clearly, IoT and 

smart manufacturing will lead to significant economic and societal impacts .

# VII . IoT Challenges and Opportunities in Manufacturing 

As the infrastructure of manufacturing systems become smarter , more and more operations are being 

carried out by an increasing number of machines. We observe that different machines may carry out the same 

or different functions or tasks, and some machines rely strongly on the output of other machines, just like a 

pipelined product line. Such strong connection s may also vary dynamically depending on the different tasks 

being executed. In a word, the synergy of various machines has become critical for the overall performance 

of existing and future systems. The IoMT deploys a multitude of sensors to continuous ly monitor machine 

conditions. Sensor outputs, known as machine signatures, provide an unprecedented opportunity for optimal 25 

decision making in manufacturing. However, realizing the full potential of I oM T for smart manufacturing 

depends, to a great extent , on addressing the following challenge s. 

The first challenge is knowing the status of each machine. This status includes not only the fact of being 

busy or not, but also the health condition , in the sense of whether it is functioning properly or not. This status 

information is very important as it determines whether this machine can be counted on for task execution. 

The most straightforward method is to use sensors that can carry out both the sensing task and also provide 

some analysis based on signal processing of the sensed data. These sensors may be powered by wired supply 

or batteries. However, with the increasing number of machines, considering their expected lifetime of one to 

two decade s, in some scenarios it is difficult to provide wired power or battery support. For example, wires 

limit the portability of sensors. Battery replacement is also sometimes challenging and time -consuming for 

these sensing systems. Also , batteries may not be safe or efficient in some extreme environments. 

The second challenge is how to make use of the status of various machines to distribute tasks to each 

machine. Should each machine follow a strict static schedule? The potential malfunction of machines, and 

also dynamic change s in system -level tasks will result in schedule different ly optimized towards energy, total 

operation time, etc. Under these circumstances, distributing tasks dynamically to machines based on the 

sensed status of each machine is key. 

The third challenge originates from the communications between machines , possibly including the 

coordinating machines if they exist . It is noted that nowadays some tasks are carried out by machines from 

different sources , even from different countries. This reveals the possibility of problems in communication 

reliability and its impact on the collaboration between these machines. In addition, manufacturing assets are 

closed systems that cannot be controlled fully from the outside even if a two -way flow of information exists .

Take a machine tool as an example. One can send G code to the machine to run it, but one cannot control the 

servos and spindles of the machines directly . This is yet another big challenge that must be overcome to 

enable full control and automation. Addressing these challenge s will lead to new avenues of fundamental and 

applied research in manufacturing, sustainable manufacturing, II oT and Cognitive Supply Chains. 

Opportunity 1. Retrofit legacy machines for smart manufacturing 

Although new manufacturing technologies and upstart companies arise, there are many existing 

manufacturing firms falling behind the wave of digital evolution. It is not uncommon that legacy (or old) 

machines exist in many small manufacturing firms. While legacy machines are invaluable assets for 

manufacturing firms and are fully utilized in production, they lack real -time and in -process sensing and 

control systems. As a result, small manufacturers increasingly lose competitive advantage in the global 

market because they are limited in information visibility and in the ability to cope with the greater complexity 

of modern manufacturing environments. Fundamental to the problem is establishing IoT connectivity 

between legacy machines. As shown in Fig. 12, IoMT sensing provides an unprecedented opportunity to 

retrofit legacy machines for digital manufacturing. As a result, there is an urgent need to develop new plug -

and -play IoT sensors that continuously collect in -situ machine data, transmit the data to cloud storage, and 

communicate with other “things ” and stake holders .

Opportunity 2. Self -powered m achine status sensing     

> Fig. 12 :The Io Tretrofitting of legacy machines for smart manufacturing

26 

It is imperative to sense the status of a machine with a self -powered supply mechanism. By making the 

sensors self -powered, no wireline connecti on or battery is needed to provide a power supply. With additional 

wireless pairing and data transition, such a sensing system could be used efficiently in many machines, 

enhancing portability and reducing maintenance cost s. Signal processing techniques, either preliminary raw 

data processing or end -to -end implementation of functions , could also be added to the sensor node. 

Opportunity 3. Machine service and tasks scheduling and distributing 

Th ere is an opportunity to study optimized task distribution (scheduling) methodology between a group 

of machines for a set of tasks or services considering , in particular, the assistance of sensed machine data. 

For example, in a centralized system with a server center, there will the following questions to be answered :

• When and what tasks should be distributed to which machines (in a dynamic distribution system)? • How 

to assess the potential contribution of a machine that is currently malfunctioning but may be fixed? How will 

this affect task scheduling and distribution policies? • What are the energy consumption and utilization of 

each machine? 

Opportunity 4. The s ynergy between IoMT machines 

It is also important to optimize the synergy between a set of machines collaborating remotely. Due to 

physical distance and unreliable message channel s, there may be a temporary block in communication 

between machines in different places. What should a machine do when it finds itself isolated from other 

machines? How should the central coordinator be designed? 

Opportunity 5. Cloud computing and analytics 

The cloud data platform is a centralized data repository, which will include not only historical data 

collected from a large number of machines, but also on -line data from the machines in -situ . Th is data can be 

retrieved easily from the clou d platform to local computers to extract useful information and prototype 

algorithms that can be deployed in either the cloud or the IoT sensor devices. Data -driven system informatics 

and control is an indispensable step to the next generation of digital manufacturing. Cloud computing and 

analytics will open avenue s of opportunit y to optimize the management and planning of manufacturing 

operations , from quality management, power management, heat and cooling, sustainability and safety, to 

distribution and supply chain management .

Opportunity 6. Blockchain enabled IoT 

Io MT things communicate with each other through the internet. Data security and privacy emerge as a 

big issue for the design, development, and deployment of IoT systems. Manufacturing industry is a part of 

the critical infrastructure of each country. Cyber -attacks on the IoMT system will directly disrupt 

manufacturing operations and other essential functions in pertinent industries. On the other hand, 

manufacturing is becoming global and distributed. IoMT things are not necessarily controlled by a centralized 

system. How to enable secure data sharing between IoMT things ? Also, how to realize the decentralized 

control of IoMT things. One possible solution is the blockchain technology which is a distributed system 

managed by a peer -to -peer network to validate and ensure secure data transport using cryptography. Because 

blockchain offers an effective means of sharing data securely under decentralized control , it also provides a

natural solution a s a data sharing framework for IoMT systems . Though there is preliminary commercial 

work being done in this domain , more fundamental research is needed .

# VIII . Conclusions 

To achieve competitive advantages in the global market, manufacturing industry is striving to create new 

products and services. As a result, advanced sensor technologies are used widely in manufacturing systems 

to increase information visibility and system controllability. Note that although sensors, data and IT systems 

may already be available in physical factories, they are not closely integrated up to the level of IoT. Recently, 

Industry 4.0 aims to boost the manufacturing system to a new generation of cyber -physical system s for smart 

manufacturing. IoT sensing collects enormous amounts of data from manufacturing systems in the physical 

world . R ealizing the full potential of IoT for smart manufacturing requires new advances in analytical 

methodologies. The challenges now are “h ow to reflect physical manufacturing in cyberspace through data -

driven information processing and modeling? ” and “how to exploit the useful information and knowledge 

extracted from data to provide better manufacturing operations in the physical world?” 27 

Indeed, s mart manufacturing depends to a great extent on data -driven innovations to realize the seamless 

integration of cyber and physical spaces. Industry companies, trade groups, and standard organizations are 

racing against the clock to lead the evolution of Industry 4.0. A number of IoT architectures such as RAMI 

4.0 and OPC UA have been proposed to define the communication structure of Industry 4.0. Note that RAMI 

4.0 provides a reference architectural model to define 3 critical dimensions of manufacturing industry 4.0 ,

i.e., Factory Hierarchy (i.e., product, field device, control device, station, work center, and enterprise ), 

Architecture (i.e., Asset, Integration, communication, information, function, and business) , and Product Life 

Cycle (i.e., from the initial design to the scrapyard). In addition, commercial IoT platforms such as GE Predix, 

ThingWorx, IBM Watson, Microsoft Azure, and Amazon AWS are readily available to enable physical 

“Things” and cyber -world applications to communicate and integrate with each other. The divers e types of 

IoT architectures and platforms are conducive to the acceleration of the development of IoT systems .

It may be noted that industry focu ses more on the establishment of IoT standards and platforms, which 

help integrate existing sensors, IT and OT systems into the new IoT framework. There are many IoT case 

studies available from company websites for marketing purpose s (also see Table III). However, IoT is still 

under development and faces technical issues for cyber -physical integration in the manufacturing system 

such as communication, big data, and control. For example, a single vibration sensor in the machine conditi on 

monitoring system generates data streams at high velocity. However, the cloud database has a limited 

bandwidth for data transmission and update frequency. Is it necessary to transmit all the raw data to the cloud, 

or just extract useful information for control decision s via embedded computing? In addition, data are “big” 

not just in terms of volume, but also in terms of variety and veracity. Note that there are a variety of data in 

manufacturing, from power profiles to machining parameters to acoustic emission to cutting force signals, 

each requiring a particular signal ac quisition parameter. Also, veracity is particularly important in the IoT 

paradigm given the uncertainty (and the lack of quantification of uncertainty) of statistical models. Further ,

IoMT data analytics require manufacturing domain expertise to steer and gain value from the data. Most of 

commercial IoT platforms (e.g., Preidx, Azure) are not specifically designed and customized for the 

manufacturing industry, and are therefore limited in ability to fulfill the needs of smart manufacturing. In 

addition, the manufacturing industry is critical to national security. Cyber -attacks on manufacturing systems 

will impact the national economy and prosperity directly . Therefore, manufacturing assets are closed systems 

that cannot be fully controlled from the outside. A critical question is “how to enable secure data sharing and 

decentralized control of IoMT things?” 

Manufacturing researchers have traditionally been less concerned about the issues of big data analytics, 

cybersecurity, cloud computing , system optimization in the large -scale IoT context. These research problems 

are critically important to improving the performance of manufacturing enterprises and achieving a high level 

of “smartness” in manufacturing. This paper presents a review of the development of IoT technologies and 

existing applications in manufacturing enterprises. Further , we provide a preliminary study to leverage IoMT 

and cloud computing to build virtual machine networks, thereby improving manufacturing decision -making 

capability through the cyber -physical integration of manufacturing enterprises. We hope our focused and 

limited review can serve as a catalyst to stimulate more in -depth and comprehensive studies that will focus 

on the development of novel IoMT technologies and analytical methodologies to improve manufacturing 

services and optimize manufacturing systems . Without a doubt , IoMT and smart manufacturing present a

promising research paradigm with strong potential to revolutionize next -generation manufacturing 

enterprise s.

# Acknowledgement s

The authors would like to thank Chen Kan, Rui Zhu, Cheng -bang Chen, Bing Yao for their help in 

organizing and editing references used in this paper . Also, the authors thank Dr. Congbo Li for sharing the 

dataset of power profil es from machining opeartaions, as well as Dr. Yun Chen and Dr. Shijie Su for sharing 

the power profiles from welding operations. This work is supported by the National Science Foundat ion 

CAREER grant (CMMI -1617148). The author (HY) also thank s Lockheed Martin, Harold and Inge Marcus 

Career Professorship (HY) for additional financial support. 28 

# Author Information 

Hui Yang is the Harold and Inge Marcus Career Associate Professor in the Harold and Inge Marcus 

Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering at The Pennsylvania State University, University 

Park, PA. His research interests are sensor -based modeli ng and analysis of complex systems for process 

monitoring, process control, system diagnostics, condition prognostics, quality improvement, and 

performance optimization. He received the NSF CAREER award in 2015, and multiple best paper awards 

from the international IEEE, IISE and INFORMS conferences . Dr. Yang is the president (2017 -2018) of IISE 

Data Analytics and Information Systems Society, the president (2015 -2016) of INFORMS Quality, Statistics 

and Reliability (QSR) society, and the program chair of 2016 Industrial and Systems Engineering Researc h

Conference (ISERC). He is also an associate editor for IISE Transactions, IEEE Journal of Biomedical and 

Health Informatics (JBHI), and IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA -L). 

Soundar Kumara is the Allen, E., and Allen, M., Pearce Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing 

Engineering at Penn State. He holds an affiliate appointment with the school of Information Sciences and 

Technology. Dr. Kumara is a Fellow of Institute of Ind ustrial Engineers (IIE), Fellow of the International 

Academy of Production Engineering (CIRP), Fellow of American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), 

and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Kumara is a leader in 

industrial engineering for his pioneering and visionary interdisciplinary research in logistics and 

manufacturing. His unique approaches integrate mathematics, AI, pattern recognition, advanced computing, 

statistical physics and operations research, to sol ve problems in complex networks, product design and real 

time monitoring of manufacturing and logistics systems. He has laid the foundations of nonlinear dynamics 

based monitoring and diagnosis methodologies in manufacturing process monitoring. One of his papers on 

clustering in large networks in Physics Reviews – E is designated as a milestone paper for 2007, 

commemorating 25 years of PRE, which has publis hed more than 50,000 articles since its beginning in 1993. 

Satish T. S. Bukkapatnam serves as Rockwell International Professor with Department of Industrial and 

Systems Engineering department at Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA. He has previously 

served as an AT&T Professor at the Oklahoma State Univ ersity and as an Assistant Professor at the 

University of Southern California. He is also the Director of Texas A&M Engineering Experimentation 

Station (TEES) Institute for Manufacturing Systems. He also holds an affiliate faculty appointment at Ecole 

Nati onale Superior Arts et Metier (ENSAM), France. His research addresses the harnessing of high -

resolution nonlinear dynamic information, especially from wireless MEMS sensors, to improve the 

monitoring and prognostics, mainly of ultraprecision and nanomanufacturing processes and machine s, and 

cardiorespiratory processes. His research has led to 151 peer -reviewed publications (87 published/ accepted 

in journals and 64 in conference proceedings), five pending patents, 14 completed PhD dissertations, $5 

million in grants as PI/Co -PI from th e National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Defense, and 

the private sector, and 17 best -paper/poster recognitions. He is a fellow of the Institute for Industrial and 

Systems Engineers (IISE) and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME), and he has been recognized 

with Oklahoma State University regents distinguished research, Halliburton outstanding college of 

engineering faculty, IISE Boeing technical innovation, IISE Eldin outstanding young industrial engineer, and 

SME Dougherty outstanding young manufacturing engineer awards. He currently serves as the editor of the 

IISE Transactions, Design and Manufacturing Focused Issue. He received his master's and Ph.D. degrees 

from the Pennsylvania State University and undergraduate degree from S.V. Un iversity, Tirupati, India. 

Fugee Tsung is Professor of the Department of Industrial Engineering and Decision Analytics (IEDA), 

Director of the Quality and Data Analytics Lab, at the Hong Kong University of Science & Technology 

(HKUST), and Editor -in -Chief of the Journal of Quality Technology (JQT). He is a Fellow of the Institute of 

Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE), Fellow of the American Society for Quality (ASQ), Fellow of the 

American Statistical Association (ASA), Academician of the International Academy for Quality (IAQ), and 

Fellow of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers (HKIE). He received both his MSc and PhD from the 

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor and his BSc from National Taiwan University. He has authored over 100 

refereed journal publications and is also the winner of the Best Paper Award for the IIE Transactions in 2003, 

2009, 2017. His research interests include industrial big data and quality analytics .29 

# References 

[1] U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis,  http://www.bea.gov/industry/gdpbyind_data.htm .

[2] Smart Manufacturing Leadership Coalition,  https://smartmanufacturingcoalition.org/ .

[3] A. Kusiak, "Smart manufacturing," Int J Prod Res, vol. 56, no. 1 -2, pp. 508 -517, 2017. 

[4] Telecommunication Development Bureau, International Telecommunication Union(ITU) ICT Facts and Figures 

2017,  http://www.itu.int/en/ITU -D/Statistics/Pages/facts/default.aspx .

[5] International Data Corp.  http://www.idc.com/ .

[6] K. Ashton. That ‘Internet of Things’ Thing, in the Real World, Things Matter More Than Ideas, 

http://www.rfidjournal.com/articles/view?4986 .

[7] J. M. Govardhan, S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, Y. Bhamare, P. K. Rao and V. Rajamani, "Statistical analysis and design 

of RFID systems for monitoring vehicle ingress/egress in warehouse environments," International Journal of 

Radio Frequency Identification Technology and Applications, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 123 -146, 2007. 

[8] J. Zhou and J. Shi, "RFID localization algorithms and applications -a review," Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing, 

vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 695, 2008. 

[9] L. D. Xu, W. He and S. Li, "Internet of Things in Industries: A Survey," IEEE Transactions on Industrial 

Informatics, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 2233 -2243, 2014. 

[10] C. Ok, S. Lee, P. Mitra and S. Kumara. Distributed energy balanced routing for wireless sensor networks. 

Computers & Industrial Engineering 57(1), pp. 125 -135, 2009. 

[11] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam and E. Cayirci, "Wireless sensor networks: a survey," Computer 

Networks, vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 393 -422, 2002. 

[12] C. A. Tokognon, B. Gao, G. Y. Tian and Y. Yan, "Structural Health Monitoring Framework Based on Internet of 

Things: A Survey," IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 619 -635, 2017. 

[13] X. Yang and L. Chen, "Using multi -temporal remote sensor imagery to detect earthquake -triggered landslides," 

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 487 -495, 2010. 

[14] H. Ren, J. Long, Z. Gao and P. Orenstein, "Passenger Assignment Model Based on Common Route in Congested 

Transit Networks," Journal of Transportation Engineering, vol. 138, no. 12, pp. 1484 -1494, 2012. 

[15] P. Rao, S. Bukkapatnam, O. Beyca, Z. Kong and R. Komanduri, "Real -Time Identification of Incipient Surface 

Morphology Variations in Ultraprecision Machining Process," Journal of Manufacturing Science and 

Engineering, vol. 136, no. 2, pp. 021008 -021008 -11, 2014. 

[16] O. F. Beyca, P. K. Rao, Z. Kong, S. T. S. Bukkapatnam and R. Komanduri, "Heterogeneous Sensor Data Fusion 

Approach for Real -time Monitoring in Ultraprecision Machining (UPM) Process Using Non -Parametric 

Bayesian Clustering and Evidence Theory," IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol. 13, 

no. 2, pp. 1033 -1044, 2016. 

[17] A. Kamilaris and A. Pitsillides, "Mobile Phone Computing and the Internet of Things: A Survey," IEEE Internet of 

Things Journal, vol. 3, no. 6, pp. 885 -898, 2016. 

[18] A. Pantelopoulos and N. G. Bourbakis, "A Survey on Wearable Sensor -Based Systems for Health Monitoring and 

Prognosis," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part C (Applications and Reviews), vol. 40, 

no. 1, pp. 1 -12, 2010. 

[19] A. Sa -ngasoongsong, J. Kunthong, V. Sarangan, X. Cai and S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, "A Low -Cost, Portable, High -

Throughput Wireless Sensor System for Phonocardiography Applications," Sensors, vol. 12, no. 8, pp. 10851 -

10870, 2012. 

[20] C. Gomez and J. Paradells, "Wireless home automation networks: A survey of architectures and technologies," 

IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 48, no. 6, pp. 92 -101, 2010. 

[21] G. W. Tan, K. Ooi, S. Chong and T. Hew, "NFC mobile credit card: The next frontier of mobile payment?" 

Telematics and Informatics, vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 292 -307, 2014. 

[22] R. Sanchez -Iborra and M. Cano, "State of the Art in LP -WAN Solutions for Industrial IoT Services," Sensors, vol. 

16, no. 5, pp. 708 -721, 2016. 

[23] Neul,  http://www.neul.com/neul/ .

[24] R. S. Sinha, Y. Wei and S. Hwang, "A survey on LPWA technology: LoRa and NB -IoT," ICT Express, vol. 3, no. 

1, pp. 14 -21, 2017. 

[25] S. L. Levin and S. Schmidt, "IPv4 to IPv6: Challenges, solutions, and lessons," Telecommunications Policy, vol. 

38, no. 11, pp. 1059 -1068, 2014. 30 

[26] X. Wang, H. Chen and D. Le, "A novel IPv6 address configuration for a 6LoWPAN -based WBAN," Journal of 

Network and Computer Applications, vol. 61, pp. 33 -45, 2016. 

[27] B. Edrington, B. Zhao, A. Hansel, M. Mori and M. Fujishima, "Machine Monitoring System Based on MTConnect 

Technology," Procedia CIRP, vol. 22, pp. 92 -97, 2014. 

[28] P. Lei, L. Zheng, C. Li and X. Li, "MTConnect Enabled Interoperable Monitoring System for Finish Machining 

Assembly Interfaces of Large -scale Components," Procedia CIRP, vol. 56, pp. 378 -383, 2016. 

[29] H. Zimmermann, "OSI Reference Model -The ISO Model of Architecture for Open Systems Interconnection," 

Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 425 -432, 1980. 

[30] R. Y. Zhong, L. Wang and X. Xu, "An IoT -enabled Real -time Machine Status Monitoring Approach for Cloud 

Manufacturing," Procedia CIRP, vol. 63, pp. 709 -714, 2017. 

[31] S. S. Manvi and G. Krishna Shyam, "Resource management for Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) in cloud 

computing: A survey," Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 41, pp. 424 -440, 2014. 

[32] A. J. Ferrer, D. G. Pérez and R. S. González, "Multi -cloud Platform -as -a-service Model, Functionalities and 

Approaches," Procedia Computer Science, vol. 97, pp. 63 -72, 2016. 

[33] A. Amiri, "Application placement and backup service in computer clustering in Software as a Service (SaaS) 

networks," Computers & Operations Research, vol. 69, pp. 48 -55, 2016. 

[34] S. Jayaram, H. I. Connacher and K. W. Lyons, "Virtual assembly using virtual reality techniques," Computer -

Aided Design, vol. 29, no. 8, pp. 575 -584, 1997. 

[35] A. Y. C. Nee, S. K. Ong, G. Chryssolouris and D. Mourtzis, "Augmented reality applications in design and 

manufacturing," CIRP Annals - Manufacturing Technology, vol. 61, no. 2, pp. 657 -679, 2012. 

[36] J. Lee, H. Kao and S. Yang, "Service Innovation and Smart Analytics for Industry 4.0 and Big Data Environment," 

Procedia CIRP, vol. 16, pp. 3 -8, 2014. 

[37] R. Y. Zhong, C. Xu, C. Chen and G. Q. Huang, "Big Data Analytics for Physical Internet -based intelligent 

manufacturing shop floors," International Journal of Production Research, vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 2610 -2621, 2017. 

[38] S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, A. Lakhtakia and S. R. T. Kumara, "Analysis of sensor signals shows turning on a lathe 

exhibits low -dimensional chaos," Physical Review E, vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 2375 -2387, 1995. 

[39] C. Cheng, A. Sa -Ngasoongsong, O. Beyca, T. Le, H. Yang, Z. Kong and S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, "Time series 

forecasting for nonlinear and non -stationary processes: a review and comparative study," IIE Transactions, vol. 

47, no. 10, pp. 1053 -1071, 2015. 

[40] A. Kusiak, "Smart manufacturing must embrace big data," Nature, vol. 544, no. 7648, pp. 23 –25, 2017. 

[41] F. Tao, Q. Qi, A. Liu and A. Kusiak. Data -driven smart manufacturing. Journal of Manufacturing Systems 2018, . 

[42] A. Kumar, R. Shankar, A. Choudhary and L. S. Thakur, "A big data MapReduce framework for fault diagnosis in 

cloud -based manufacturing," International Journal of Production Research, vol. 54, no. 23, pp. 7060 -7073, 

2016. 

[43] Y. Bao, L. Ren, L. Zhang, X. Zhang and Y. Luo, "Massive sensor data management framework in cloud 

manufacturing based on hadoop," in IEEE 10th International Conference on Industrial Informatics, 2012, pp. 

397 -401. 

[44] d. U. Saenz, A. Artiba and R. Pellerin, "Manufacturing execution system – a literature review," Production 

Planning & Control, vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 525 -539, 2009. 

[45] M. Quiescenti, M. Bruccoleri, U. La Commare, N. L. Diega and G. Perrone, "Business process -oriented design of 

Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems for small and medium enterprises," International Journal of 

Production Research, vol. 44, no. 18 -19, pp. 3797 -3811, 2006. 

[46] S. R. T. Kumara and S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, "Characterization and monitoring of nonlinear dynamics and chaos in 

manufacturing enterprise systems," in Network Science, Nonlinear Science and Infrastructure Systems , T. Friesz, 

Ed. 2007, pp.99 -122. 

[47] H. Yang, S. T. S. Bukkapatnam and R. Komanduri, "Nonlinear adaptive wavelet analysis of electrocardiogram 

signals," Physical Review E, vol. 76, no. 2, pp. 026214, 2007. 

[48] S. T. Bukkapatnam, S. R. Kumara and A. Lakhtakia, "Fractal estimation of flank wear in turning," Journal of 

Dynamic Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol. 122, no. 1, pp. 89 -94, 2000. 

[49] S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, S. R. Kumara and A. Lakhtakia, "Local eigenfunctions -based suboptimal wavelet packet 

representation of contaminated chaotic signals," IMA Journal of Applied Mathematics, vol. 63, pp. 149 -160, 

1999. 

[50] S. T. S. Bukkapatnam, S. Kumara and A. Lakhtakia, "Analysis of acoustic emission signals in machining," ASME 

Transactions on Manufacturing Science and Engineering, vol. 121, pp. 568 -573, 1999. 31 

[51] C. Koh, J. Shi and W. Williams, "Tonnage Signature Analysis Using the Orthogonal (HAAR) Transforms," 

Transactions of NAMRI/SME, vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 229 -234, 1995. 

[52] J. Jin and J. Shi, "Feature -Preserving Data Compression of Stamping Tonnage Information Using Wavelets," 

Technometrics, vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 327 -339, 1999. 

[53] J. Jin and J. Shi, "Diagnostic Feature Extraction from Stamping Tonnage Signals Based on Design of Experiment," 

ASME Transactions, Journal of Manufacturing Science and Engineering, vol. 122, no. 2, pp. 360 -369, 2000. 

[54] Y. Ding, L. Zeng and S. Zhou, "Phase I analysis for monitoring nonlinear profiles in manufacturing processes," 

Journal of Quality Technology, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 199 -216, 2006. 

[55] Bukkapatnam, S., S. Kumara, A. Lakhtakia,and P.Srinivasan, "Neighborhood method and its coupling with the 

wavelet method for nonlinear signal separation of contaminated chaotic time -series data," Signal Processing, vol. 

82, pp. 1351 -1374, 2002. 

[56] S. Bukkapatnam, H. Yang and F. Modhavi, "Towards prediction of nonlinear and nonstationary evolution of 

customer preferences using local markov models," in The Art and Science Behind Successful Product Launches ,

N. R. Srinivasa Raghavan and John A. Cafeo, Eds. Springer, 2009, pp.271 -287. 

[57] H. Yang and Y. Chen, "Heterogeneous recurrence monitoring and control of nonlinear stochastic processes," 

Chaos, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 013138, 2014. 

[58] Y. Chen and H. Yang, "Heterogeneous recurrence representation and quantification of dynamic transitions in 

continuous nonlinear processes," The European Physical Journal B, vol. 89, no. 6, pp. 155, 2016. 

[59] C. Cheng, C. Kan and H. Yang, "Heterogeneous recurrence analysis of heartbeat dynamics for the identification of 

sleep apnea events," Computers in Biology and Medicine, vol. 75, pp. 10 -18, 2016. 

[60] C. Kan, C. Cheng and H. Yang, "Heterogeneous recurrence monitoring of dynamic transients in ultraprecision 

machining processes," Journal of Manufacturing Systems, vol. 41, pp. 178 -187, 2016. 

[61] G. Liu and H. Yang, "Self -organizing network for group variable selection and predictive modeling," Annals of 

Operation Research, pp. 1 -22, 2017. 

[62] H. Yang, "Multiscale Recurrence Quantification Analysis of Spatial Cardiac Vectorcardiogram (VCG) Signals," 

Biomedical Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 58, no. 2, pp. 339 -347, 2011. 

[63] Y. Chen and H. Yang, "Multiscale recurrence analysis of long -term nonlinear and nonstationary time series," 

Chaos, Solitons & Fractals, vol. 45, no. 7, pp. 978 -987, 2012. 

[64] H. Yang, S. T. S. Bukkapatnam and L. G. Barajas, "Local recurrence based performance prediction and 

prognostics in the nonlinear and nonstationary systems," Pattern Recognit, vol. 44, no. 8, pp. 1834 -1840, 2011. 

[65] S. T. S. Bukkapatnam and C. Cheng, "Forecasting the evolution of nonlinear and nonstationary systems using 

recurrence -based local Gaussian process models," Physical Review E, vol. 82, no. 5, pp. 056206, 2010. 

[66] J. Li and J. Shi, "Knowledge discovery from observational data for process control using causal bayesian 

networks," IIE Transactions, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 681 -690, 2007. 

[67] X. Zhang and Q. Huang, "Analysis of interaction structure among multiple functional process variables for process 

control in semiconductor manufacturing," Semiconductor Manufacturing, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 23, no. 2, 

pp. 263 -272, 2010. 

[68] J. Shi, Stream of Variation Modeling and Analysis for Multistage Manufacturing Processes. CRC Press, Taylor & 

Francis Group, 2006. 

[69] J. Liu, J. Shi and S. J. Hu, "Quality assured setup planning based on the stream of variation model for multi -stage 

machining processes," IIE Transactions, Quality and Reliability Engineering, vol. 41, pp. 323 -334, 2009. 

[70] A. J. J. Braaksma, A. J. Meesters, W. Klingenberg and C. Hicks, "A quantitative method for Failure Mode and 

Effects Analysis," International Journal of Production Research, vol. 50, no. 23, pp. 6904 -6917, 2012. 

[71] N. Gebraeel, "Sensory -Updated Residual Life Distributions for Components With Exponential Degradation 

Patterns," Automation Science and Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 382 -393, 2006. 

[72] L. Bian, N. Gebraeel and J. P. Kharoufeh, "Degradation modeling for real -time estimation of residual lifetimes in 

dynamic environments," IIE Transactions, vol. 47, no. 5, pp. 471 -486, 2015. 

[73] H. Yang, S. T. S. Bukkapatnam and L. G. Barajas, "Continuous flow modelling of multistage assembly line 

system dynamics," International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 401 -411, 

2013. 

[74] M. C. Fu, "Optimization via simulation: A review," Annals of Operations Research, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 199 -247, 

1994. 

[75] F. Tao, Y. Cheng, L. D. Xu, L. Zhang and B. H. Li, "CCIoT -CMfg: Cloud Computing and Internet of Things -

Based Cloud Manufacturing Service System," IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 

1435 -1442, 2014. 32 

[76] D. Georgakopoulos, P. P. Jayaraman, M. Fazia, M. Villari and R. Ranjan, "Internet of Things and Edge Cloud 

Computing Roadmap for Manufacturing," IEEE Cloud Computing, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 66 -73, 2016. 

[77] Y. C. Lin, M. H. Hung, H. C. Huang, C. C. Chen, H. C. Yang, Y. S. Hsieh and F. T. Cheng, "Development of 

Advanced Manufacturing Cloud of Things (AMCoT) —A Smart Manufacturing Platform," IEEE Robotics and 

Automation Letters, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 1809 -1816, 2017. 

[78] Y. Zhang, G. Zhang, J. Wang, S. Sun, S. Si and T. Yang, "Real -time information capturing and integration 

framework of the internet of manufacturing things," Int. J. Comput. Integr. Manuf., vol. 28, no. 8, pp. 811 -822, 

2015. 

[79] L. Monostori, B. Kádár, T. Bauernhansl, S. Kondoh, S. Kumara, G. Reinhart, O. Sauer, G. Schuh, W. Sihn and K. 

Ueda, "Cyber -physical systems in manufacturing," CIRP Annals - Manufacturing Technology, in print 2016. 

[80] K. Thramboulidis and F. Christoulakis, "UML4IoT —A UML -based approach to exploit IoT in cyber -physical 

manufacturing systems," Computers in Industry, vol. 82, pp. 259 -272, 2016. 

[81] F. Tao, J. Cheng and Q. Qi, "IIHub: an Industrial Internet -of -Things Hub Towards Smart Manufacturing Based on 

Cyber -Physical System," IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, PP(99), pp. 1 -1, 2017, . 

[82] F. Tao, D. Zhao, Y. Hu and Z. Zhou, "Resource Service Composition and Its Optimal -Selection Based on Particle 

Swarm Optimization in Manufacturing Grid System," IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 4, no. 4, 

pp. 315 -327, 2008. 

[83] F. Tao and Q. Qi, "New IT Driven Service -Oriented Smart Manufacturing: Framework and Characteristics," IEEE 

Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, PP(99), pp. 1 -11, 2017, . 

[84] R. F. Babiceanu and R. Seker, "Big Data and virtualization for manufacturing cyber -physical systems: A survey of 

the current status and future outlook," Computers in Industry, vol. 81, pp. 128 -137, 2016. 

[85] G. Adamson, L. Wang and P. Moore, "Feature -based control and information framework for adaptive and 

distributed manufacturing in cyber physical systems," Journal of Manufacturing Systems, vol. 43, pp. 305 -315, 

2017. 

[86] J. Qin, Y. Liu and R. Grosvenor, "A Framework of Energy Consumption Modelling for Additive Manufacturing 

Using Internet of Things," Procedia CIRP, vol. 63, pp. 307 -312, 2017. 

[87] Y. S. Tan, Y. T. Ng and J. S. C. Low, "Internet -of -Things Enabled Real -time Monitoring of Energy Efficiency on 

Manufacturing Shop Floors," Procedia CIRP, vol. 61, pp. 376 -381, 2017. 

[88] F. K. Shaikh, S. Zeadally and E. Exposito, "Enabling Technologies for Green Internet of Things," IEEE Systems 

Journal, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 983 -994, 2017. 

[89] F. Tao, Y. Zuo, L. D. Xu, L. Lv and L. Zhang, "Internet of Things and BOM -Based Life Cycle Assessment of 

Energy -Saving and Emission -Reduction of Products," IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 10, no. 

2, pp. 1252 -1261, 2014. 

[90] A. Rymaszewska, P. Helo and A. Gunasekaran, "IoT powered servitization of manufacturing – an exploratory case 

study," International Journal of Production Economics, in press, 2017. 

[91] D. Li, M. Ren and G. Meng, "Application of Internet of Things Technology on Predictive Maintenance System of 

Coal Equipment," Procedia Engineering, vol. 174, pp. 885 -889, 2017. 

[92] Y. Xu and M. Chen, "Improving Just -in -Time Manufacturing Operations by Using Internet of Things Based 

Solutions," Procedia CIRP, vol. 56, pp. 326 -331, 2016. 

[93] Y. Ding, P. Kim, D. Ceglarek and J. Jin, "Optimal sensor distribution for variation diagnosis in multistation 

assembly processes," IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 543 -556, 2003. 

[94] Y. Ding, E. A. Elsayed, S. Kumara, J. C. Lu, F. Niu and J. Shi, "Distributed Sensing for Quality and Productivity 

Improvements," IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 344 -359, 2006. 

[95] D. Boos, H. Guenter, G. Grote and K. Kinder, "Controllable accountabilities: the Internet of Things and its 

challenges for organisations," Behaviour & Information Technology, vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 449 -467, 2013. 

[96] E. Sun, X. Zhang and Z. Li, "The internet of things (IOT) and cloud computing (CC) based tailings dam 

monitoring and pre -alarm system in mines," Safety Science, vol. 50, no. 4, pp. 811 -815, 2012. 

[97] D. Podgórski, K. Majchrzycka, A. Dąbrowska, G. Gralewicz and M. Okrasa, "Towards a conceptual framework of 

OSH risk management in smart working environments based on smart PPE, ambient intelligence and the Internet 

of Things technologies," International Journal of Occupational Safety and Ergonomics, vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 1 -20, 

2017. 

[98] B. Guo, D. Zhang, Z. Wang, Z. Yu and X. Zhou, "Opportunistic IoT: Exploring the harmonious interaction 

between human and the internet of things," Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 36, no. 6, pp. 

1531 -1539, 2013. 33 

[99] A. A. Nazari Shirehjini and A. Semsar, "Human interaction with IoT -based smart environments," Multimedia 

Tools and Applications, vol. 76, no. 11, pp. 13343 -13365, 2017. 

[100] T. Cheng, G. C. Migliaccio, T. Jochen and U. C. Gatti, "Data Fusion of Real -Time Location Sensing and 

Physiological Status Monitoring for Ergonomics Analysis of Construction Workers," Journal of Computing in 

Civil Engineering, vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 320 -335, 2013. 

[101] R. D. Meller, Functional Design of Physical Internet Facilities: A Road -Based Transit Center. Faculté des 

sciences de l'administration, Université Laval, 2013. 

[102] Y. Cheng, F. Tao, L. Xu and D. Zhao, "Advanced manufacturing systems: supply –demand matching of 

manufacturing resource based on complex networks and Internet of Things," Enterprise Information Systems, pp. 

1-18, 2016. 

[103] P. J. Reaidy, A. Gunasekaran and A. Spalanzani, "Bottom -up approach based on Internet of Things for order 

fulfillment in a collaborative warehousing environment," International Journal of Production Economics, vol. 

159, pp. 29 -40, 2015. 

[104] T. Qu, M. Thürer, J. Wang, Z. Wang, H. Fu, C. Li and G. Q. Huang, "System dynamics analysis for an Internet -

of -Things -enabled production logistics system," International Journal of Production Research, vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 

2622 -2649, 2017. 

[105] T. Fan, F. Tao, S. Deng and S. Li, "Impact of RFID technology on supply chain decisions with inventory 

inaccuracies," International Journal of Production Economics, vol. 159, pp. 117 -125, 2015. 

[106] G. Hwang, J. Lee, J. Park and T. Chang, "Developing performance measurement system for Internet of Things 

and smart factory environment," International Journal of Production Research, vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 2590 -2602, 

2017. 

[107] L. Zhou, A. Y. L. Chong and E. W. T. Ngai, "Supply chain management in the era of the internet of things," 

International Journal of Production Economics, vol. 159, pp. 1 -3, 2015. 

[108] G. E. P. Box and R. D. Meyer, "An Analysis for Unreplicated Fractional Factorials," Technometrics, vol. 28, no. 

1, pp. 11 -18, 1986. 

[109] Y. Chen and H. Yang, "A novel information -theoretic approach for variable clustering and predictive modeling 

using Dirichlet process mixtures," Scientific Reports, vol. 6, no. 38913, pp. 1 -13, 2016. 

[110] S. Zhou, B. Sun and J. Shi, "An SPC monitoring system for cycle -based waveform signals using haar transform," 

Automation Science and Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 60 -72, 2006. 

[111] H. Yang, C. Kan, Y. Chen and G. Liu, "Spatiotemporal differentiation of myocardial infarctions," IEEE 

Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 938 -947, 2013. 

[112] A. M. Bronstein, M. M. Bronstein and R. Kimmel, "Generalized multidimensional scaling: A framework for 

isometry -invariant partial surface matching," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United 

States of America, vol. 103, no. 5, pp. 1168 -1172, 2006. 

[113] Groenen, P., van de Velden,M., "Multidimensional Scaling by Majorization: A Review," Journal of Statistical 

Software, vol. 73, no. 8, pp. 1 -26, 2016. 

[114] C. Kan, H. Yang and S. Kumara, "Parallel Computing and Network Analytics for Fast Internet -of -Things (IOT) 

Machine Information Processing and Condition Monitoring," Journal of Manufacturing Systems, vol. 46, pp. 

282 -293, 2018. 

[115] G. E. Dower and H. B. Machado, "XYZ data interpreted by a 12 -lead computer program using the derived 

electrocardiogram," Journal of Electrocardiology, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 249 -261, 1979. 

[116] K. P. Oliveira -Esquerre, D. E. Seborg, M. Mori and R. E. Bruns, "Application of steady -state and dynamic 

modeling for the prediction of the BOD of an aerated lagoon at a pulp and paper mill: Part II. Nonlinear 

approaches," Chemical Engineering Journal, vol. 105, no. 1 -2, pp. 61 -69, 2004. 

[117] Y. Chen and H. Yang, "Self -organized neural network for the quality control of 12 -lead ECG signals," 

Physiological Measurement, vol. 33, no. 9, pp. 1399, 2012. 

[118] H. Yang and F. Leonelli, "Self -organizing visualization and pattern matching of vectorcardiographic QRS 

waveforms," Computers in Biology and Medicine, vol. 79, pp. 1 -9, 2016. 

[119] Y. Chen and H. Yang, "Sparse Modeling and Recursive Prediction of Space –Time Dynamics in Stochastic 

Sensor Networks," Automation Science and Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 215 -226, 

2016. 

[120] A. Clauset, C. Shalizi and M. Newman, "Power -Law Distributions in Empirical Data," SIAM Review, vol. 51, no. 

4, pp. 661 -703, 2009. 

[121] R. Albert and A. -. Barabási, "Statistical mechanics of complex networks," Reviews of Modern Physics, vol. 74, 

no. 1, pp. 47 -97, 2002. 34 

[122] U. N. Raghavan, R. Albert and S. Kumara, "Near linear time algorithm to detect community structures in large -

scale networks," Physical Review E, vol. 76, no. 3, pp. 036106, 2007. 

[123] L. Cui, S. Kumara and R. Albert, "Complex Networks: An Engineering View," IEEE Circuits and Systems 

Magazine, vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 10 -25, 2010. 

[124] H. Yang and G. Liu, "Self -organized topology of recurrence -based complex networks," Chaos, vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 

043116, 2013. 

[125] NIST Cybersecurity Framework,  https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework .

[126] M. J. Hutchins, R. Bhinge, M. K. Micali, S. L. Robinson, J. W. Sutherland and D. Dornfeld, "Framework for 

Identifying Cybersecurity Risks in Manufacturing," Procedia Manufacturing, vol. 1, pp. 47 -63, 2015. 

[127] Z. DeSmit, A. E. Elhabashy, L. J. Wells and J. A. Camelio, "An approach to cyber -physical vulnerability 

assessment for intelligent manufacturing systems," Journal of Manufacturing Systems, vol. 43, pp. 339 -351, 

2017. 

[128] L. D. Sturm, C. B. Williams, J. A. Camelio, J. White and R. Parker, "Cyber -physical vulnerabilities in additive 

manufacturing systems: A case study attack on the .STL file with human subjects," Journal of Manufacturing 

Systems, vol. 44, pp. 154 -164, 2017. 

[129] L. Duan, D. Liu, Y. Zhang, S. Chen, R. P. Liu, B. Cheng and J. Chen, "Secure Data -Centric Access Control for 

Smart Grid Services Based on Publish/Subscribe Systems," ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, vol. 16, 

no. 4, pp. 23:1 -23:17, 2016. 

[130] S. Seo, J. Won and E. Bertino, "pCLSC -TKEM: A Pairing -free Certificateless Signcryption -tag Key 

Encapsulation Mechanism for a Privacy -Preserving IoT," Transactions on Data Privacy, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 101 -

130, 2016. 

[131] Y. Zhang, Y. Xiang and X. Huang, "Password -Authenticated Group Key Exchange: A Cross -Layer Design," 

ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 24:1 -24:20, 2016. 

[132] N. Saxena, S. Grijalva and N. S. Chaudhari, "Authentication Protocol for an IoT -Enabled LTE Network," ACM 

Transactions on Internet Technology, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 25:1 -25:20, 2016. 

[133] S. Siboni, A. Shabtai, N. O. Tippenhauer, J. Lee and Y. Elovici, "Advanced Security Testbed Framework for 

Wearable IoT Devices," ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 26:1 -26:25, 2016. 

[134] A. Saeed, A. Ahmadinia, A. Javed and H. Larijani, "Random Neural Network Based Intelligent Intrusion 

Detection for Wireless Sensor Networks," Procedia Computer Science, vol. 80, pp. 2372 -2376, 2016. 

[135] H. Vincent, L. Wells, P. Tarazaga and J. Camelio, "Trojan Detection and Side -channel Analyses for Cyber -

security in Cyber -physical Manufacturing Systems," Procedia Manufacturing, vol. 1, pp. 77 -85, 2015. 

[136] L. Thames and D. Schaefer, "Cybersecurity for industry 4.0 and advanced manufacturing environments with 

ensemble intelligence," in Cybersecurity for Industry 4.0: Analysis for Design and Manufacturing , L. Thames 

and D. Schaefer, Eds. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2017, pp.243 -265. 

[137] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, "Security and Privacy in Decentralized Energy Trading through Multi -

signatures, Blockchain and Anonymous Messaging Streams," IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure 

Computing, vol. PP, no. 99, pp. 1 -1, 2016. 

[138] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, "Blockchains and Smart Contracts for the Internet of Things," IEEE Access, 

vol. 4, pp. 2292 -2303, 2016. 

[139] P. Ghuli, U. P. Kumar and R. Shettar, "A review on blockchain application for decentralized decision of 

ownership of IoT devices," Advances in Computational Sciences and Technology, vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 2449 -2456, 

2017. 

[140] A. Bahga and V. K. Madisetti, "Blockchain Platform for Industrial Internet of Things," Journal of Software 

Engineering and Applications, vol. 9, no. 10, pp. 533 -546, 2016. 

[141] President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, "Report to the president on ensuring american 

leadership in advanced manufacturing," 2012.