Title: Flint: A Semantics-Driven Data Visualization Intermediate Language

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.20775v1

Published Time: Fri, 24 Jul 2026 00:25:08 GMT

Number of Pages: 21

Markdown Content:
# Flint: A Semantics-Driven Data Visualization Intermediate Language 

microsoft.github.io/flint-chart/ Yunhai Wang , Kecheng Lu , Junhao Chen , Alper Sarikaya , Chenglong Wang 

Figure 1: Flint is an intermediate language for data visualization. A Flint specification has two parts: a data spec, which can be inferred by an LLM agent from the data, and a simple chart spec. Given the input data, the compiler uses semantic information to choose low-level parameters and translate the Flint spec into a well-configured specification for a target chart type, such as a Vega-Lite faceted line chart. As the user edits the Flint spec to create new visualizations, the compiler automatically updates these configurations to produce high-quality charts without requiring the user to manually adjust detailed parameters such as axes, layers, or color schemes. This allows users to rapidly explore data across diverse chart types and rendering backends, for example by switching to ECharts to support a sunburst chart. 

Abstract —We present Flint, an intermediate language that enables authors to create high-quality visualizations from concise, semantics-driven specifications without explicitly configuring low-level parameters such as scales, axes, and formatting. Unlike prior systems that infer default configurations from surface-level data representations, often producing brittle choices, Flint introduces a hierarchical data semantic model that allows users to specify the meanings of data fields structurally and helps the compiler derive appropriate visualization configurations. From a concise specification, the system generates and optimizes library-agnostic visualization configurations and translates them into complete, executable specifications for multiple target grammars, including Vega-Lite, Apache ECharts, and Chart.js. We demonstrate that Flint simplifies the authoring process without compromising on visual quality, and it is an effective intermediate language for both humans and AI agents to create visualizations. 

Index Terms —LLM, semantic type, intermediate language 

1 INTRODUCTION 

Effective data exploration requires analysts to rapidly create and adapt visualizations, frequently changing chart types, en-codings, and layouts as they refine hypotheses. Consequently, visualization specifications must remain simple while maintain-ing the capacity to produce high-quality designs. Declarative 

• Yunhai Wang, Kecheng Lu, and Junhao Chen are with Renmin University of China, Beijing, China. E-mail: {wang.yh, lukecheng0407, chenjunhao11}@ruc.edu.cn. • Alper Sarikaya and Chenglong Wang are with Microsoft, Redmond, WA, USA. E-mail: {alper.sarikaya, chenglong.wang}@microsoft.com. 

languages like Vega-Lite [34] and ECharts [22] have advanced this goal, with recent work combining these grammars with large language models (LLMs) to enable natural language to visualiza-tion (NL2Vis) systems [5] and autonomous data agents [41, 44]. These approaches lower the barrier to iterative chart creation by generating complete specifications from user descriptions. Despite these advances, authors still face a persistent trade-off. Simple high-level specifications that fully rely on system “smart default” low-level configurations [47] often yield poor designs, whereas detailed specifications can improve quality but become verbose, brittle, and difficult to modify because of com-plex parameter dependencies. The fundamental issue is that existing libraries must infer data semantics from raw representa-

1arXiv:2607.20775v1 [cs.HC] 22 Jul 2026 tions to configure smart defaults. Incorrect inferences produce misleading visualizations: stacking non-additive measures like correlation, applying a sequential color scale to diverging-class fields, or parsing integer dates (e.g., 20080101) as UNIX seconds, resulting in erroneous 1970 dates. Recommendation systems like Draco [30] alleviate generic configuration challenges, but model-ing the exponential spaces of all parameters, especially those for layered and composite charts (e.g., waterfall, pyramid), across different libraries remains impractical. As LLM-based agents are increasingly used to generate speci-fications from natural language or demonstrations, overcoming this configuration barrier has become urgent. The challenge is twofold. From the user perspective , even when agents produce visually effective charts, the resulting specifications are often verbose and fragile, with hard-coded interdependent low-level parameters. Small changes such as altering encodings or swap-ping chart types often break the code, forcing users to request full regeneration and incurring high token costs and latency that hinder interactive exploration. From the developer perspective ,building agents that consistently follow best practices across libraries remains difficult. Visualization grammars have long-tailed parameter spaces and use different vocabularies. Training data is also uneven across libraries. These factors make agents unreliable for less common chart types and libraries. Developers therefore face substantial challenges in training or instructing LLM agents to robustly generate correct and well-designed visu-alizations. In this paper, we argue that the trade-off between fragile, high-quality charts and flexible, poorly designed defaults comes from a language limitation: existing visualization grammars lack an explicit way to specify the semantics of data. Many low-level parameters implicitly encode semantic decisions, such as parsing rules, meaningful baselines (e.g., zero), valid aggregations, and formatting. Without semantics as first-class objects, human au-thors and LLM agents must encode their intent indirectly through monolithic, library-specific parameters. Conversely, when se-mantics are omitted entirely, systems are forced to “guess” data meanings, often producing suboptimal or misleading designs. To address these challenges, we introduce Flint, a semantics-driven intermediate language for visualization. Inspired by database research that leverages semantic types for data inte-gration and cleaning [18, 20], our key insight is to formalize a hierarchical semantic type system as first-class objects in visu-alization specifications. Rather than requiring users or LLMs to manipulate low-level parameters, Flint explicitly represents data semantics as types to guide visualization design. Flint’s data-driven compiler integrates data semantics, raw data repre-sentations, and chart specifications to automatically infer critical configurations, including scales, axes, aggregations, formatting, and layout. As a result, users only need to specify a chart type and field-to-channel mappings, while the system derives the remaining low-level details. This design aligns with users’ pref-erence for using simple chart-type-based approaches to describe visualization goals during data exploration [1, 2, 29]. Designed as a library-agnostic intermediate language, Flint bridges high-level chart intent and executable rendering gram-mars. Like intermediate representations in general-purpose pro-gramming (e.g., LLVM [19]), it does more than resolve seman-tics: the compiler also optimizes chart specifications and gen-erates output for the target library selected by the user, such as Vega-Lite, Apache ECharts, or Chart.js. For example, the same heatmap specification can be adapted to data density: a dense matrix yields compact cells, fewer ticks, and abbreviated labels, whereas a sparse matrix produces larger cells and more detailed annotations. By embedding such design knowledge into compiler passes, Flint reduces reliance on carefully designed prompting and ad hoc defaults, making specifications more ro-bust and easier to revise during iterative exploration. Its flexible backend architecture also lets users switch rendering libraries without rewriting chart specifications. In our implementation, we realize backends for three libraries with substantially different specification models: Vega-Lite, Apache ECharts, and Chart.js. Through a case analysis (Section 6), we show that Flint can compile concise semantic specifications into detailed, backend-specific code. We also show that Flint is well suited to LLM-based generation: semantic types are often easy for AI agents to infer from data field names, value patterns, and common sense, enabling the model to produce high-quality charts from compact semantic inputs. Compared with directly generating library-level specifications, Flint also enables LLMs to produce much shorter programs while maintaining strong visual quality, as verified by LLM judges [7]. Our contributions are: • We introduce Flint, an intermediate language for specifying charts using data semantics and simple visual encodings. • We develop a compiler that resolves and optimizes low-level chart configurations holistically from semantic intent, tran-spiling them to different visualization backends. • We release Flint with compilers for Vega-Lite, Apache ECharts, and Chart.js, and evaluate its effectiveness through compre-hensive chart galleries and LLM-generation experiments. 

2 RELATED WORK 

Declarative Visualization Specification. Modern chart author-ing is fundamentally shaped by declarative visualization gram-mars such as Wilkinson’s Grammar of Graphics [47], alongside implementations like ggplot2 [42], Vega [35], and Vega-Lite [34]. These grammars provide a structured space of encodings, com-position operators, and interaction mechanisms. This foundation enables authors to systematically reason about design decisions and iteratively refine charts, vastly improving upon ad hoc imper-ative code. Simultaneously, widely adopted libraries like D3 [4], Mascot.js [23], Matplotlib [40], and Apache ECharts [22] provide highly expressive rendering capabilities and extensive chart-type coverage. However, these systems (even high-level grammars like Vega-Lite) often demand low-level parameter configurations for marks, axes, scales, layouts, and styling to better reflect data semantics, because system defaults inferred from surface data representations can be fragile and hard-coded design choices can be difficult to edit [38]. Our work addresses this gap; Flint leverages data semantics to manage low-level library-specific chart configuration details, and it leverages existing libraries for final rendering. 

Template-Based Visualization Authoring. Code reuse through templating is a common practice in both general programming and visualization design [39]. Many visualization tools (e.g., Excel) and grammars utilize templates or predefined “chart types” to accelerate the generation process, such as for waterfall, lol-lipop, and sunburst charts. However, traditional template-based approaches [1, 29] are often very restrictive. Static templates tightly couple a chart’s structural scaffold with its underlying data configuration, making them restrictive and difficult to adapt to changes in data type or cardinality. More configurable templates offer greater flexibility, but they often expose a large number of low-level parameters, which can be difficult for both users and LLM agents to use effectively. Flint can be viewed as a form of “dynamic template” that decouples visual structure from data semantics: semantic configurations are determined dynami-cally from the data, while structural composition is governed by 2reusable templates. In this way, Flint complements prior work on visualization reuse by enabling flexible templates for bespoke charts that can automatically adapt to diverse datasets. 

LLM-based NL2VIS. Recent advancements in LLM-based NL2Vis techniques [12, 13] have enabled the translation of nat-ural language (NL) queries into visualizations by generating grammar-specific code (e.g., Vega-Lite) or utilizing multi-stage pipelines. Systems such as Chat2VIS [28] and LIDA [11] demon-strate that general-purpose LLMs can autonomously select chart types and produce viable specifications. Subsequent research has focused on improving robustness: NL4DV-LLM [33] uses LLMs to infer analytic tasks and attribute roles, while VegaChat [17] introduces automated heuristic corrections and schema valida-tion to guide error recovery. Recent state-of-the-art systems use LLMs to directly generate low-level visualization code [5, 44]. Although these specifications can yield high-quality charts, they are often complex and fragile, with interdependent parameters— even small edits require full regeneration—which increases both latency and cost for exploration. LLM performance also remains uneven across libraries because training data is imbalanced [7]. In response, we introduce Flint, a semantic intermediate language that lets LLMs translate natural-language intent into a concise representation, while the compiler automatically handles low-level configuration and adapts the result to different visualization backends based on data semantics. 

Visualization Design Knowledge. Research in visualization has established foundational principles of visual encoding. Early work by Bertin [3] and Cleveland and McGill [10] demonstrated that the accuracy of information recovery depends on the align-ment between data types and perceptual tasks. Subsequent research has extended these insights to higher-level analytical tasks, such as interpreting aggregates, distributions, and correla-tions, while articulating specific perceptual guidelines. Examples include “banking to 45 ◦” for optimal aspect ratios [8, 45, 46], selecting perceptually distinct hues for multi-class categorical data [14, 25], and addressing the sine illusion in streamgraph or-dering [6, 43]. These studies underscore that effectiveness is not merely a matter of encoding choice, but a complex interaction between data semantics, layout, and human perception. Embedding such design knowledge into practical systems re-mains difficult, especially in AI-based ones where LLM agents do not reliably follow best practices because of uneven training data, even with complex prompting. Flint addresses this issue by encoding design knowledge directly as deterministic optimiza-tion passes that systematically adjust visualization parameters. This separation lets LLMs focus on what to visualize, while the compiler determines how to visualize it well. Because Flint is library-agnostic, it also lowers the cost of transferring these design principles across practical rendering systems. 

Recommendation systems. Automatically recommending visu-alizations from data or partial inputs can help users better explore data. Early systems like APT [26] and ShowMe [27] relied on physical data types to select encodings, while modern systems like Draco [30] formalize design knowledge into strict constraints and preference rules to rank Vega-Lite charts. However, because low-level configuration spaces are large and difficult to cover ex-haustively, existing recommendation engines are often restricted to a small set of common chart types with simplified parameteri-zations, limiting the exploration space. Flint complements these systems by abstracting away low-level configuration details and exposing semantic information directly. This allows recommen-dation engines to focus on higher-level design decisions, such as chart type, encoding composition, and analytical task fit, while relying on the compiler to handle downstream parameterization. 

Semantic Types. Semantic type modeling has been widely stud-ied in the database community for data cleaning and integration. Systems such as Sherlock [18] and Sato [50] predict fine-grained concepts from tabular data using machine learning, while more recent approaches use LLMs [21] to further improve detection. Modern analytics platforms [20, 24] also increasingly deploy semantic layers to define entities and governed metrics, ensuring consistent aggregation and interpretation. These efforts highlight the value of explicit data semantics, but existing models are de-signed primarily for data preparation and are not fine-grained enough for visualization needs. To address this gap, we introduce a visualization-oriented semantic type hierarchy. By treating se-mantic types as first-class objects, our compiler can constrain parameter choices and systematically generate higher-quality charts while reducing user configuration burden. 

3 OVERVIEW 

In this section, we first use an example to explain challenges for systematically handling low-level chart configurations in existing libraries. Then, we provide an overview of our language design and the compilation approach to address this problem. 

3.1 Motivating Examples 

We use a user-engagement dataset from a consulting scenario as a running example. It contains four fields: Period , Week ,

> AgeGroup

, and Users . The dataset records active-user counts over 72 monthly periods ( 202001 to 202512 ), with each period further broken down by week ( wk1 –wk4 ) and age group ( 18–24 ,

> 25–34

, . . . , 60+ ). Sample rows are shown in Figure 2.                    

> Period Week AgeGroup Users
> 202001 wk1 18–24 15412 202001 wk1 25–34 24440 202001 wk1 35–44 20241 . . . 202001 wk2 18–24 16255 . . . 202512 wk4 60+ 7449
> Figure 2: Example user-engagement dataset and a simple heatmap.

From this dataset, the user can easily create a heatmap to com-pare week and user group trends: Week on the x-axis, AgeGroup 

on the y-axis, and avg(Users) as color. This chart is easy to create in Vega-Lite using the rect mark.    

> {"mark" : "rect", "encoding" : {
> "x" : { "field" : "Week"},
> "y" : { "field" : "AgeGroup"},
> "color" : { "field" : "Users", "aggregate" : "mean"} } }

Because the specification is short and the default primitive data types align perfectly with visual mappings, it is easy to adapt: with minor edits, the user can swap the x and y encodings or try a different chart type, such as a grouped bar chart. The analyst now wants a small conceptual edit: replace Week 

with Period on the x-axis and change the aggregation from  

> avg(Users)

to sum(Users) . Ideally, the user should simply be able to swap the field and update the aggregate, an edit of only two tokens, and obtain a properly rendered chart. However, this is where the gap between primitive data types and semantic types 

becomes a critical hurdle. While Period values (e.g., 202001 ) are stored as raw integers, their semantic type is a structured tempo-ral unit (Year-Month). Because standard visualization grammars do not natively understand these rich semantic types, the user faces a dilemma: accept a simple specification that produces poor 3results, or write a verbose specification burdened with tightly coupled, low-level parameters. 

Option 1: Simple but problematic specification. A short spec-ification no longer produces a satisfactory chart because the system misinterprets the underlying semantics of the data. If 

Period is naively cast as a temporal type directly from the integer 

202001 , the system misparses the dates, resulting in an invalid timeline and wrong geometry (Figure 3, top). Conversely, if it is treated as a nominal string, the chart blindly expands into 72 dis-crete categories (Figure 3, bottom). Without understanding that 

Period here can simultaneously behave as discrete values to con-trol tile configuration and a continuous temporal axis for parsing and axis formatting, the compiler cannot automatically decide a set of default parameters to produce a good visualization. 

Figure 3: A simple specification fails in two different ways: temporal interpretation misparses the period field, while nominal interpreta-tion produces an overcrowded layout. 

Option 2: Detailed but fragile specification. An expert can cre-ate a clean heatmap for Period × Week × sum(Users) . However, doing so requires coordinating a fragile set of low-level decisions that compensate for the system’s lack of semantic awareness: • Manually enforcing temporal semantics: Because the system sees 202001 merely as a raw integer, the expert must explic-itly parse it using a %Y%m format and force the axis to be 

temporal . This explicit intervention prevents the chart from rendering arbitrary numbers and forces the use of time-based tick generation algorithms for readable labels. • Adapting physical geometry to accommodate high data cardi-nality: To reconcile the broken positional behavior, the expert must coordinate a fragile dual-treatment: treating Period as continuous for chronological parsing and axis tick generation, while managing it as discrete for heatmap tile alignment. This requires hard-coding interdependent layout parameters, specifi-cally a 7px mark width and a 504px canvas span, and manually padding the axis domain bounds to ["2019-12-17T00:00:00", "2026-01-16T00:00:00"] . This padding ensures that the first and last time-based ticks precisely align with the outer edges of the dense tiles without text overlap. • Refining color domain: Because sum(Users) encodes abso-lute quantitative magnitude, its visual encoding must remain mathematically proportional. The expert therefore fixes the color scale to a zero baseline, preventing auto-scaling from distorting the perceived ratios of user counts. Figure 4 shows the resulting Vega-Lite specification and ren-dered heatmap. While effective, the solution is fragile because it depends on hard-coded, interdependent parameters that a semantics-aware system should ideally infer automatically. This limitation becomes apparent when the user makes a seemingly simple change, such as rotating the chart to AgeGroup × Date 

× sum(Users) and faceting by Week . The chart representation changes substantially: Week becomes a facet, Date moves to a vertical temporal axis, and AgeGroup becomes a horizontal cat-egorical axis, so the previous configuration no longer transfers. The user must manually redefine layout, spacing, geometry, and cross-facet color consistency.          

> {"transform" : [{
> "calculate" : "timeParse(toString(datum.Period), '%Y%m ')",
> "as" : "Date" }],
> "mark" : { "type" : "rect", "width" : 7},
> "encoding" : {
> "x" : { "field" : "Date", "type" : "temporal",
> "scale" : {
> "nice" :false ,
> "domain" : ["2019-12-17T00:00:00", "2026-01-16T00:00:00"] } },
> "y" : { "field" : "Week" },
> "color" : {
> "field" : "Users", "aggregate" : "sum",
> "scale" : { "domainMin" : 0} } },
> "config" : { "view" : { "continuousWidth" : 504} }}

Figure 4: An expert can produce a clean heatmap for Period ×

Week × sum(Users), but only by coordinating tightly coupled low-level parameters, including parsing, scale, mark width, and layout. 

These challenges extend beyond this example and are espe-cially pronounced in compositional visualizations such as pyra-mid or waterfall charts, where parameters must be coordinated within and across layers. The issue is further amplified across visualization libraries with different abstractions. For example, Vega-Lite controls layout through encodings, scales, and view properties, while ECharts organizes charts using series, grids, and component configurations. Even in the heatmap example, categorical spacing is handled through step size in Vega-Lite but through layout regions and paddings in ECharts. This diversity forces users and AI agents to reason about different parameter-izations for the same visual intent. This scenario motivates the need for a unified, library-agnostic model that derives low-level specifications from high-level semantics. 

3.2 System Architecture 

Our solution is to design an intermediate language that lets users specify visualization intent through high-level declarative rep-resentations while the compiler handles low-level configuration automatically across libraries. The specification includes the semantic structure of the data and the intended chart. The full specifications for the experts’ heatmaps are shown here. 

> dataSpec :
> Period : YearMonth
> Week : Week
> AgeGroup : Range
> Users : Count
> chartSpec :
> chartType : Heatmap
> encodings :
> x: Week
> y: AgeGroup
> color : avg(Users)
> chartSpec :
> chartType : Heatmap
> encodings :
> x: Period
> y: Week
> color : sum(Users)

Such simple specs make chart adaptation easy: the user only updates the high-level chart intent, while the data specification remains unchanged. When the chart specification changes, the compiler combines semantic information with raw data charac-teristics to (re)infer the parameters required by the target library, freeing users from low-level specification management while still producing high-quality charts. Figure 5 shows our system architecture: a modular three-stage compilation pipeline inspired by the LLVM architecture [19]. The key idea is to maintain and optimize a set of abstract vi-sualization properties in a library-agnostic fashion that reflects data semantics before translating them into backend-specific executable specifications. 

Compiler Frontend. The pipeline begins with raw data and a user-defined Flint specification, including data semantic specs, 4Figure 5: Overview of the Flint architecture. Flint employs a modular three-stage design: a compiler frontend for translating user intents into library-agnostic properties, an optimization stage that refines configurations, and extensible code generators that produce library-native specs for desired rendering engines. LLM agents can infer data semantic specs from the raw data to reduce authoring efforts. 

the chart type, and visual encodings. The frontend resolves en-coding properties from these inputs and represents them as a shared compilation context . Properties produced from this stage capture core encoding decisions reflecting the semantic mean-ing of data, including data parsing, encoding type, formatting behavior, aggregation, scale, domain, ordering, and midpoints. 

Optimizer. The optimizer enriches this compilation context with layout decisions, coordinating the sizes of visual elements with the available canvas while accounting for data cardinality, encoding types, grouping, and faceting. It first resolves local layout properties for each axis, such as axis span, band step, padding, group width, radius, and facet panel size, and then refines them globally to resolve dependencies like aspect ratio and facet wraps. Thus, this stage augments the compilation context with optimized layout properties that ensure the chart will be readable and well-proportioned, avoiding overcrowded, distorted, or excessively sparse layouts. 

Code Generator. Finally, the code generator decides final chart-specific properties and translates the optimized compilation con-text into an executable specification for a target visualization library (e.g., Vega-Lite, ECharts, or Chart.js). The code gener-ator handles the diverse vocabulary and programming models used by different libraries. The backend is modular and exten-sible: each library provides its own templates and compilation parameters, allowing new libraries to be added without changing the frontend or optimization stages. The output is a library-native specification ready for rendering. 

4 THE FLINT LANGUAGE 

In this section, we present the design of our intermediate lan-guage Flint. Flint represents visualization-relevant data seman-tics as first-class objects in the specification, so that low-level chart decisions can be inferred systematically from them. Our design follows these two principles: 1. We decouple what data means from how it is mapped to vi-sual properties. Instead of relying solely on coarse encoding-oriented data types such as quantitative, nominal, temporal, and ordinal, we introduce fine-grained, encoding-agnostic semantic types that model the meaning of data fields directly. This builds a reusable semantic representation that can sup-port multiple visualizations of the same data. 2. We adopt a chart-type-based approach to visualization speci-fication, where the compiler manages layering, composition, and instance-specific parameters using configuration deci-sions inferred from data semantics. This keeps specifications concise while supporting expressive visualizations and sim-plifying adaptation across chart instances.                     

> Table 1: Data semantics hierarchy examples.
> L1: Domain L2: Family L3: Types
> Temporal DateTime Date | Time | Timestamp | ... DateGranule Year | Quarter | Month | YearMonth | ... Duration Duration Categorical Entity Category | Name Coded Status | Boolean | Direction Binned Range Measure Amount Revenue | Cost | Price | ... Proportion Percentage Rating Score | Rating Signed Profit | Correlation | Delta | ... Generic Quantity | Number | Temperature | ... Discrete Rank Rank Identifier ID ID Geographic Coordinate Latitude | Longitude GeoPlace Country | State | City | ZipCode | ...

4.1 Hierarchical data semantic model 

Our goal is to formalize a semantic type system that lets users formally express data meaning that can guide visualization de-sign. Although semantic types have been used in database re-search for data mining tasks [18, 20], existing definitions are often too coarse for visualization. For example, two columns associated with month may require very different visual treat-ments if one stores month-of-year codes ( 1–12 ) and the other stores year–month timestamps (e.g., 2001-01 to 2010-12 ). The former is cyclically ordered discrete representation, whereas the latter forms a chronological sequence suits continuous tempo-ral scales. Treating both as the same Temporal or Month type obscures visualization-relevant distinctions. At the same time, overly fine-grained labels such as MonthName , MonthNumber ,or UnixTimestamp increase specification complexity without im-proving visualization intent, making schemas brittle. Our key insight here is to formalize a semantic type system based on how data meaning influences visualization behavior ,and to organize these types hierarchically so that each level captures a different class of compilation decisions. We formalize semantic types as a three-level hierarchy: Level 1 determines how raw values should be interpreted and parsed; Level 2 captures scale- and transformation-level semantics, such as aggregation behavior, zero interpretation, and domain structure; and Level 3 refines type-specific presentation choices, such as formatting, ordering, and other display defaults. This hierarchy follows an 5inheritance structure: lower-level types inherit the compilation decisions made by their ancestors and then add more specific constraints when needed. For example, a Level 3 type such as YearMonth inherits the temporal parsing behavior from its Level 1 Temporal domain and temporal scale behavior from its Level 2 family, while refining presentation-level details such as date formatting and tick labeling. Thus, deeper levels do not alter the higher-level interpretation of the data; they specialize it for more reliable visualization generation. • Level 1: Semantic Domain. We first group semantic types based on how raw data should be parsed . Our design lever-ages this level to determine the core parser class (e.g., temporal or numeric) to ensure correctness of data processing. For ex-ample, a column with values 202001 , 202002 , 202003 might represent year–month timestamps, or quantities such as rev-enue or account identifiers depending on their column names and contexts. If a system relies only on automatic parser tests, it may silently accept revenue as a datetime object and con-figure it into a temporal axis; they may also turn a numerical field representing sales with missing values into nominal just because the column has values represented as “ N/A ”. With Level 1 semantic type guidance, the field can be parsed and interpreted with greater confidence. • Level 2: Semantic Family. We next group semantic types based on how data behaves with respect to key encoding properties 

like aggregation, zero, and domain shape. For example, despite both revenue and percentage are numeric measures that should be processed by numerical parsers (per L1 decision), they imply different aggregation and domain properties. Revenue is an Amount : it is additive, zero denotes the absence of the measured quantity, and its domain is typically open-ended. Percentage, in contrast, is a Proportion : it is intensive and often has either a bounded or context-dependent domain. These distinctions affect chart configurations: when they are used as y-axis of a bar chart but color encoding is not provided, an Amount field such as revenue should typically default to summation if there are duplicate values, whereas a Proportion 

field such as percentage should default to average. Other example properties determined in L2 are whether including zero in the domain should be enforced, optional or disabled; whether the scale domain should be fixed or data-dependent. • Level 3: Semantic Type. Finally, L3 captures fine-grained semantic types that define presentation decisions, such as di-verging, formatting, ordering, and ticks. For example, a Rank 

field should be displayed on a reversed axis so that rank 1 at the top. Similarly, in a dot plot that compares the longitudinal posi-tions of cities along an east-west axis, a Longitude field should respect its closed semantic domain [−180 , 180 ] rather than being displayed on an arbitrarily padded axis like [−200 , 200 ].Such fine-grained distinctions provide more consistent visual presentation. In Flint, this hierarchy is implemented as a global semantic type registry containing 6 L1 domains, 15 L2 families, and 44 L3 types (Table 1). The registry operationalizes the inheritance structure described above: each L3 leaf type inherits parser de-cisions from its L1 domain and encoding properties from its L2 family, then contributes type-specific presentation refinements such as domain shape, divergence, formatting, and ordering. This structure also supports progressive disclosure. LLM agents can use the full L3 registry for precise visualization configuration, while human authors can specify only intuitive L1/L2 types and let the compiler fill in best-effort defaults. Table 2 illustrates how concrete leaf types populate this compilation registry.  

> dataSpec :
> <field> :
> semanticType : ...
> intrinsicDomain : null | [<min>, <max>] | [<v1>, <v2>, ...]
> mid : null | <value>
> chartSpec :
> chartType : Scatter | Bar | Grouped Bar | Line | Area | Heatmap | Radar | Pyramid | ... ,→
> encodings :
> <channel> :
> field : <field>
> aggregate : null | sum | average | min | max | unique
> overrides : ...
> Figure 6: Schema of Flint. dataSpec defines field semantics; chartSpec defines the chart type and simple encodings.

Besides conceptual clarity, the hierarchical design provides direct engineering benefits, especially reusability and extensibil-ity . For example, instead of building one set of parser for each semantic type, we only need to maintain a core set of parsers for each semantic domain. If a developer wants to introduce a new semantic type FiscalQuarter to support specialized labeling and formatting for financial use cases, they only need to implement the L3 semantics while reusing others based on parent types. In this way, the hierarchy reduces implementation redundancy, keeps the taxonomy maintainable, and allows new semantic types to be added without ad hoc parsing and visualization rules. Note that semantic types do not replace the role of raw data representations (i.e., the actual input data values) in visualization. Rather, they are metadata of raw values that gives the compiler actionable guidance on how to appropriately interpret data for encodings, chart, and formatting defaults. In the next sections, we show how semantic types are complemented by data-specific semantic attributes, such as intrinsic_domain and mid , and how these specifications are transformed into detailed, semantically aligned chart configurations. 

4.2 The language 

Building on the data semantics model, Flint defines a visualiza-tion specification in two separate sections: (1) a dataSpec that describes the semantic representation of data fields and (2) a  

> chartSpec

section that describes the intended visual mapping. Figure 6 illustrates the grammar of this visualization language. Because the data specification captures the semantics of the un-derlying fields independently of charts, it only needs to be created once and can be reused for charts of the same dataset. In practice, users do not need to author all of this information manually, as much of the data specification can be inferred by an LLM from column names, observed values, and surrounding context [18]. Although data semantics and chart specifications are conceptu-ally separated, they can still be authored together in a single Flint specification to reduce cognitive load during manual authoring. In LLM-powered interactive systems, the dataSpec can be in-ferred or cached when data is uploaded, making it easy for users to adapt the chartSpec when creating subsequent visualizations. 

Data Specification. In dataSpec (Figure 6), in addition to a semantic type, users can provide optional properties such as an  

> intrinsic domain

and midpoint to complement a field’s semantic description. Semantic type captures the general meaning of a field, but it does not fully determine its intended representation for visualization. For example, a field with semantic type Rating 

may use a 1–5 scale, a 0–100 scale, or an ordered discrete domain such as [strong reject, weak reject, weak accept, strong accept] ,even if the observed table values cover only part of that range. Likewise, accuracy and recall are naturally bounded to [0, 100 ]

(or [0, 1]), whereas other percentage-valued fields may not im-ply the same closed range. Ordered fields such as age groups 6Table 2: Illustrative semantic type assignments across the seven abstract properties.                                                                

> Semantic Type Parser Encoding Candidates Zero Class Agg. Role Domain Shape Diverging Formatter Ex.
> YearMonth temporal temporal / ordinal none dimension open none %Y-%m
> Month temporal ordinal none dimension cyclic none Jan / 1,2,3 Percentage numeric quantitative contextual intensive bounded none 12.3%
> Revenue numeric quantitative meaningful additive open none $12.4K
> Profit numeric quantitative meaningful signed-additive open conditional +$2.1K
> Latitude numeric geographic arbitrary dimension fixed none 37.77
> Status string nominal none dimension open none Active Direction string ordinal / nominal none dimension cyclic none NE

require an intrinsic domain to preserve the intended order rather than a lexicographic order [<18, >60, 18–29, 30–44, 45–60] . The  

> midpoint

property specifies a meaningful reference value, such as 0 for signed scores or a neutral baseline for sentiment, which may differ from the numerical center of the domain (e.g., 32 ◦Ffor Fahrenheit temperatures). These properties are helpful for vi-sual presentations: intrinsic domains support correct axis ranges and ordering, while midpoints enable centered color scales and diverging encodings. Together, these optional properties comple-ment semantic types to constrain chart configurations. 

Chart Specification. The chartSpec component describes the intended visualization. The user first chooses a chartType ,which selects a visual template such as Scatter , Line , Bar , or 

> Heatmap

, and then specifies an encodings map that binds vi-sual channels to fields or aggregated fields, such as x 7 → Month , 

> y

7 → sum(Revenue) , or color 7 → Region .We adopt a chart type-based specification so that users can express a wide range of visualizations, including radar charts, pyramids, waterfall charts, and candlestick charts, without explic-itly constructing them through composition algebra [34]. This design matches Flint’s role as an intermediate language cen-tered on semantic intent rather than bespoke visual construction. At the same time, Flint remains expressive through extensible chart templates, allowing it to support new visualization forms without expanding the core language. Unlike traditional static templates, which are often rigid with respect to data types, cardi-nalities, or formats, these compiler-backed templates adapt to the data and semantics in the specification, automatically resolving chart-specific parameter dependencies to produce high-quality visualizations. We deliberately keep the chart language simple by omitting low-level view configuration such as axes, scales, and formatting, leaving these decisions to the compiler (Section 5). At the same time, Flint preserves flexibility through optional chart properties and encoding-level overrides, which allow users to steer common chart behaviors without editing low-level generated code directly. For example, users may specify a map center for geographic charts or override the sort direction of the x-axis in a bar chart from ascending to descending. Finally, because the Flint com-piler produces library-native code, users who want additional customization can further edit the compiled specification. 

Remarks. Flint currently supports static chart specifications and does not expose interactive visualization features, such as brush-ing, zooming or cross-filtering, as first-class constructs. When these interactions are supported by backend libraries, users who need them can add or modify interactive components in the downstream backend specification generated by Flint. In addi-tion, Flint’s current semantic type design assumes a one-to-one mapping between data fields and semantic types. This can be insufficient for fields that admit multiple possible interpretations. We consider first-class support for interaction and ambiguous semantic types as future extensions to Flint’s core language. 

5 FLINT -C OMPILER 

As described in Section 3.2, the compiler maintains a shared compilation context derived from the data and chart specifica-tion inputs, and progressively refines this context across three stages: semantics resolution, optimization, and code generation. Each stage resolves a different subset of visualization properties needed for high-quality chart design, namely encoding proper-ties , layout properties , and template-specific properties . Flint treats data as part of the program: the compiler uses data char-acteristics, such as cardinality and distribution, alongside the specification during optimization. When the input data changes, Flint triggers a synchronous recompilation pass to adaptively recompute the visual layout. Figure 7 provides an overview of this pipeline’s first two stages. 

5.1 Stage 1: Semantics Resolution 

In this stage, the compiler frontend resolves the chart encoding properties that capture the meaning of the data, including parsing, encoding type, formatting, scale type, tick constraints, axis rever-sal, stacking behavior, color semantics, and sort order. It does so by first resolving data ambiguity using both semantic types and raw data representations, and then grounds the decisions into chart-specific encoding properties. The first step derives a set of field properties that characterize each field independently of chart context. This step resolves the many-to-many correspondence between semantic types and raw representations described in Section 4. Guided by the semantic type, the compiler first selects an appropriate parser and then re-solves the detailed field properties. Semantic guidance is crucial here, as it allows the compiler to disambiguate these represen-tations and determine reusable semantics, such as whether the field can support temporal or ordinal treatment in later stages. This step also helps the compiler to resolve mismatches between semantic types and physical data information (Appendix B). Next, the compiler derives encoding properties for particular visual channels from field properties by adding chart contexts. For example, in the heatmap of Figure 4, placing YearMonth on the x-axis yields a temporal positional encoding with time format-ting and an ordered temporal scale, but with domainPadding=0 

to accommodate discrete tiles. The same field may lead to dif-ferent channel-specific decisions in other contexts; for instance, when used on the color channel of a line chart, YearMonth may be treated as an ordered or categorical progression rather than as a temporal positional axis depending on cardinality. Guided by the semantic type throughout, this step ensures that channel encodings remain semantically aligned, avoiding errors such as treating YearMonth as quantitative values or applying inappropri-ate aggregation to fields such as accuracy. 

5.2 Stage 2: Optimization 

In the second stage, the compiler optimizes chart layout for the available display space. Users provide a preferred chart size and a maximum allowable area (e.g., preferred: 300 × 300 ,7Figure 7: The compilation and optimization workflow. The system compiles raw inputs into intermediate field and encoding prop-erties, then optimizes local and global properties to refine chart sizing. 

max: 800 × 600 ), and the compiler resolves layout properties 

so the chart fits the canvas gracefully. It does this by balancing compression of individual visual components with expansion of the canvas within the allowed range. The properties considered include axis span, discrete step size, padding, group width, inter-group spacing, facet panel size, facet row and column counts, and, for radial layouts, radius and angular allocation. Without this stage, default settings can easily produce overflow, excessive density, or distorted layouts (e.g., the heatmap in Figure 3). We formulate this stage as a physics-based optimization process: it first solves local parameters for each dimension, then coordinates these decisions to handle global properties such as aspect ratio. 

Local optimizations. The optimizer first determines the size of each layout dimension that affects chart sizing, including the x-and y-axes, group (e.g., grouped bars), radius (for pie and radial charts), and row /column in faceted layouts. Each dimension acts as a 1D flexible container capable of expanding within a bounded budget. To ensure readability without relying on rigid static breakpoints, we adopt constraint-based approaches [16, 36] to dynamically control element sizes. Depending on the encoding type, the optimizer resolves spatial demand as follows: • Discrete layouts. For items occupying discrete slots (e.g., bars or heatmap cells), each mark acts as a compressible unit constrained by a preferred and minimum readable size. If total spatial demand exceeds the available span, the optimizer resolves the conflict by expanding the layout or compressing items until all minimum size constraints are met. • Continuous layouts. For continuous axes (e.g., scatterplots or line charts), constraints are defined by visual density and al-lowable mark overlap. When high spatial density causes marks to violate these overlap constraints, the optimizer resolves the conflict by stretching the canvas dimensions to reduce crowd-ing and ensure visual separation. For nested charts (e.g., grouped bars, strip plots, small multi-ples), constraints are applied hierarchically. Spatial demand is first resolved for items within each group, followed by a joint optimization of how the groups themselves pack into the broader canvas budget. This ensures individual marks remain readable without violating the overarching limits of the stretched canvas. 

Global optimizations. Building on local decisions, the optimizer resolves overarching chart-level properties, primarily aspect ratio (AR). For continuous charts, it blends an AR derived from the “banking to 45 ◦” principle [9, 15, 45, 46] with locally stretched width and height, balancing visual interpretability against density reduction. For banded charts, it shrinks the orthogonal dimen-sion to preserve proportional mark sizes and prevent excessive elongation. Second, it optimizes facet wrapping by balancing overall compactness against subplot legibility. Finally, for non-axis-bound charts (e.g., treemaps, gauge charts, funnel charts), it calculates canvas size directly from visual component counts. These final decisions yield an optimized compilation context ready for code generation. For advanced users who wish to cus-tomize the compiler’s layout behavior, Flint accepts compilation options such as stretch ratio, canvas size, base chart size, and minimum step size. These parameters are passed to the compiler at runtime and combined with data characteristics and chart de-sign to constrain layout optimization, while preserving the same high-level visualization specification. 

5.3 Stage 3: Code generation 

Finally, backend code generators translate the optimized, library-agnostic chart properties into library-native specs. They first resolve chart-specific properties that depend on the selected chart template. Each backend provides a collection of dynamic chart templates , where each template provides a chart skeleton with an instantiation function that consumes the compilation context, finalizes instance-specific properties, and emits a specification in the target library’s native vocabulary. For example, a bubble chart template may adjust the pixel size range of bubbles based on data density, while a radar chart template may normalize ra-dial domains using intrinsic field domains. The same optimized layout can therefore be realized differently across libraries: a Vega-Lite template may emit width: {step: ...} together with scale padding, whereas an ECharts template may use series-level properties such as barCategoryGap , barGap , and barWidth . This dynamic-template design allows each chart instance to inspect the full compilation context and adapt accordingly, improving flexi-bility for compositional charts. Overall, the compiler maintains a clear separation between optimization and code generation: chart intent is determined once, and each backend implements it according to the conventions of its target library. 

6 EVALUATION 

In this section, we first demonstrate Flint’s expressiveness and flexibility for human authoring through concrete examples, fol-lowed by an evaluation of its benefits for LLM agents in NL2VIS tasks. To facilitate this, we implemented Flint as a JavaScript li-brary that currently supports three backends, Vega-Lite, ECharts, and Chart.js, and provides 30 chart types, including variants of scatter, bar, line, pie, density, maps and compositional charts. A gallery is shown in Appendix C. We also integrate the library into the visualization pipeline of the open-source data analysis tool Data Formulator, 1 where AI agents generate flexible Flint specs (rather than Vega-Lite directly) to facilitate exploration. 

6.1 Case Study 

To demonstrate the effectiveness of Flint in supporting rapid, iterative data exploration, we conducted a case study using a syn-thetic dataset representing the 2025 global gaming market. The dataset tracks 24 games across 6 platform types ( gameType ) and 4 regions ( region ). The exploration process follows three phases, showing how Flint resolves the trade-off between specification simplicity and design quality. The example is shown in Figure 1. 

Phase 1: Quick overview. The analyst begins by examining user trends across game types and regions using Vega-Lite. In traditional systems, this usually requires manual data and chart configuration to avoid misleading defaults: the period field could be parsed and formatted as integers, regions could be sorted alphabetically ( E,N,S,W ), and default subplot widths could be-come too large for four regions. With Flint, the compiler uses 

> dataSpec

, inferred by an LLM agent from the raw data, to con-figure the chart. With a simple chartSpec , the analyst obtains 

> 1https://data-formulator.ai

8a well-formatted multi-faceted visualization with optimized x-and y-axis labels, adapted chart widths, and semantically ordered facets, as shown in Figure 1-d. 

Phase 2: Exploring different visualizations. The analyst now wants to explore different data field combinations to better un-derstand regional and user growth trends. Traditionally, as the visualization changes, the user must reconfigure the chart to ac-commodate new encoding properties and data cardinality: (1) when creating a grouped bar chart to compare user numbers across game types by month, the analyst must remap period from a temporal to a discrete axis and reconcile bar widths and axis lengths to avoid skewed chart proportions (Figure 1-e); (2) when creating a waterfall chart to show user flux (Figure 1-f), they must explicitly configure bar starting points to align adjacent bars; (3) when using newUsers in a heatmap (Figure 1-g) to show each game’s popularity trend over time, they must apply a di-verging color scale with midpoint 0 to reflect “delta” rather than relying on default linear color (e.g., blues) and revise x-labels to accommodate longer names. These reconfiguration steps accu-mulate and slow down analysis. Flint eliminates this burden: the analyst simply changes the chart type and swaps encodings in the 

> chartSpec

, and the compiler reuses the dataSpec from the first step to automatically infer all downstream parameters to produce high-quality charts. 

Phase 3: Switching backends. In the final phase, the analyst explores the user distribution hierarchy ( Region / GameType /

> Game

) using a sunburst chart. Since Vega-Lite does not sup-port interactive sunburst charts, the analyst needs to use ECharts instead. However, the two libraries have very different pro-gramming models, so manually porting a chart can be costly. With Flint, the analyst only needs to provide a simple sunburst chart spec (Figure 1-h) and switch the backend, thanks to Flint’s library-agnostic design. If the analyst later wants to render any of the earlier Vega-Lite charts in ECharts to take advantage of ECharts’ animation features, they can simply switch the backend without modifying the specification itself. This exploration highlights three key advantages of Flint: (1) 

concise —specifications were on average 85% shorter than native backend code; (2) robust —explicit semantic types prevent com-mon design errors such as incorrectly formatted dates, invalid stacking of non-additive measures or diverging colors at the do-main midpoint instead of zero; and (3) portable —the same intent was seamlessly compiled into Vega-Lite for initial sketches and ECharts for final presentation. 

6.2 LLM Chart Generation 

To evaluate whether Flint is LLM-friendly, we compare the Flint 

agent (Vega-Lite backend) with a baseline DirectVL agent that outputs Vega-Lite directly from datasets and natural language queries. We follow the VisEval [7] protocol, which uses a vision-language model to assess charts generated from natural language queries. We exclude the standard VisEval dataset due to its SQL-focused complexity and limited visual diversity: 84% of 1,150 cases are bar or pie charts (7 types total), 91% use only two visual encodings, and tables are very small (median 4 rows, 86% ≤10). Instead, we evaluate on the more complex TidyTuesday 2025 datasets. 2 To address the lack of annotated queries, we introduce an automated three-stage LLM pipeline: a Question Generator 

synthesizes diverse analytical queries [31], a Chart agent gen-erates the visualizations using either the induced Flint-agent or the DirectVL-agent, and a vision-language Grader evaluates the                 

> 2https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday
> Table 3: Comparison of overall scores between Flint and DirectVL agents. Values show the number and percentage of wins/ties.
> Model #Flint wins #Tie #VL wins p
> GPT-5.1 129 (41%) 65 (21%) 118 (38%) 0.05 GPT-5-mini 140 (45%) 65 (21%) 106 (34%) 0.001 GPT-4.1 135 (43%) 70 (23%) 106 (34%) 0.004

rendered images using the VisEval evaluator. Following VisEval, outputs are scored 0–5 on Relevance, Chart Errors, Clarity, and Design Quality, for a maximum of 20 points. Additional details on prompts and agent design are provided in Appendix D. 

Observations. The experiment yields 315 questions (5 per dataset) across 10 chart types: Bar (18.7%), Lollipop (15.6%), Grouped Bar (14.6%), Line (14.3%), Boxplot (13.7%), Scatter (11.4%), Heatmap (7.0%), Pie (2.5%), Map (1.3%), and Area (1.0%). The median number of output rows is 37 across agents. Table 3 shows pairwise comparisons: Flint wins more often than DirectVL, with statistical significance on GPT-5-mini ( p=0.001 )and GPT-4.1 ( p=0.004 ), and borderline significance on GPT-5.1 (p=0.05 ). The advantage grows as model capability decreases, showing that embedding structured visualization knowledge into the language yields more reliable chart generation than uncon-strained Vega-Lite, while remaining simple and flexible. Flint excels on charts requiring semantic coordination, such as map-ping fields to grouped encodings, configuring sort orders, or creating multi-layer compositions. Ties or DirectVL wins oc-cur on simpler charts (e.g., single-series bars, basic boxplots) that require minimal semantic reasoning. Results also show that an intermediate representation is especially valuable for models with limited capacity to manage free-form specifications. We show detailed experiment results and examples in Appendix E. 

7 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 

We introduced Flint, an intermediate language that uses a seman-tic type hierarchy to optimize chart configurations and generate library-native specifications. This abstraction opens new research opportunities: • Extending to new visualization languages. Emerging lan-guages such as Gofish [32] and PiCCL [37] introduce new visualization capabilities but often come with steep learning curves and limited training data. With Flint, researchers can implement a new backend that compiles Flint specifications to the target language. Downstream users can then plug the new language into existing tools without rewriting authoring inter-faces, retraining agents, or learning a new low-level grammar from scratch (see Appendix C). • Visualization recommendation. Existing engines like Draco [30, 49] and CompassQL [48] rely on physical data representations, which introduce many rules over low-level pa-rameters. With Flint’s abstract semantic layer, recommenders can focus purely on high-level design choices (chart types and channel mappings) while delegating downstream adjustments to the compiler. This enables engines to learn generalizable visual idioms with significantly less training data. Overall, Flint bridges visualization research and engineering practice through concise specifications and extensible backends. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We thank supports from the NSFC grants (No. 62502523, No. U2436209), the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (L247027), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities, and the Research Funds of Renmin University of China. 9REFERENCES 

[1] H. Bako, A. Varma, A. Faboro, M. Haider, F. Nerrise, B. Kenah et al. Streamlining visualization authoring in d3 through user-driven templates. In 2022 IEEE Visualization and Visual Analytics (VIS) ,pp. 16–20. IEEE, 2022. doi: 10.1109/VIS54862.2022.00012 2 [2] H. K. Bako, X. Liu, L. Battle, and Z. Liu. Understanding how designers find and use data visualization examples. IEEE Transac-tions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 29(1):1048–1058, 2022. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2022.3209490 2 [3] J. Bertin. Semiology of graphics . University of Wisconsin press, 1983. 3 [4] M. Bostock, V. Ogievetsky, and J. Heer. D3 data-driven docu-ments. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graph-ics , 17(12):2301–2309, 2011. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2011.185 2 [5] M. Brossier, T. Isenberg, K. Schönborn, J. Unger, M. Romero, J. Björklund et al. State of the art of LLM-enabled interaction with visualization, 2026. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2601.14943 1, 3 [6] C. Bu, Q. Zhang, Q. Wang, J. Zhang, M. Sedlmair, O. Deussen et al. Sinestream: Improving the readability of streamgraphs by minimiz-ing sine illusion effects. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 27(2):1634–1643, 2020. doi: 10.1109/TVCG. 2020.3030404 3 [7] N. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Xu, K. Ren, and Y. Yang. Viseval: A benchmark for data visualization in the era of large language mod-els. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics ,31(1):1301–1311, 2024. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456320 2, 3, 9[8] W. S. Cleveland. A model for studying display methods of statisti-cal graphics. Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics ,2(4):323–343, 1993. doi: 10.1080/10618600.1993.10474616 3 [9] W. S. Cleveland. A model for studying display methods of statisti-cal graphics. Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics ,2(4):323–343, 1993. doi: 10.1080/10618600.1993.10474616 8 [10] W. S. Cleveland and R. McGill. Graphical perception: Theory, experimentation, and application to the development of graph-ical methods. Journal of the American Statistical Association ,79(387):531–554, 1984. doi: 10.1080/01621459.1984.10478080 3 [11] V. Dibia. Lida: A tool for automatic generation of grammar-agnostic visualizations and infographics using large language mod-els. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 3: System Demonstrations) ,pp. 113–126, 2023. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-demo.11 3 [12] M. Elshehaly, R. Jianu, A. Slingsby, G. Andrienko, and N. An-drienko. Designing for collaboration: Visualization to enable human–LLM analytical partnership. IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications , 45(5):107–116, 2025. doi: 10.1109/MCG.2025. 3583451 3 [13] T. Gao, M. Dontcheva, E. Adar, Z. Liu, and K. G. Karahalios. Data-tone: Managing ambiguity in natural language interfaces for data visualization. In Proceedings of the 28th annual acm symposium on user interface software & technology , pp. 489–500, 2015. doi: 10.1145/2807442.2807478 3 [14] C. C. Gramazio, K. B. Schloss, and D. H. Laidlaw. The relation between visualization size, grouping, and user performance. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics , 20(12):1953– 1962, 2014. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346983 3 [15] J. Heer and M. Agrawala. Multi-scale banking to 45 degrees. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 12(5):701– 708, 2006. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2006.163 8 [16] J. Hoffswell, W. Li, and Z. Liu. Techniques for flexible responsive visualization design. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp. 1–13, 2020. doi: 10. 1145/3313831.3376777 8 [17] M. Hostnik, R. Kurbanov, Y. Sokolov, and A. Trofimov. Veg-achat: A robust framework for LLM-based chart generation and assessment, 2026. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2601.15385 3 [18] M. Hulsebos, K. Hu, M. Bakker, E. Zgraggen, A. Satyanarayan, T. Kraska et al. Sherlock: A deep learning approach to semantic data type detection. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on knowledge discovery & data mining ,pp. 1500–1508, 2019. doi: 10.1145/3292500.3330993 2, 3, 5, 6 [19] C. Lattner and V. Adve. Llvm: A compilation framework for lifelong program analysis & transformation. In International sym-posium on code generation and optimization, 2004. CGO 2004. ,pp. 75–86. IEEE, 2004. doi: 10.1109/CGO.2004.1281665 2, 4 [20] D. J. L. Lee, D. Tang, K. Agarwal, T. Boonmark, C. Chen, J. Kang et al. Lux: Always-on visualization recommendations for ex-ploratory data science. CoRR , abs/2105.00121, 2021. doi: 10. 14778/3494124.349415 2, 3, 5 [21] C. Li, D. Zhang, and J. Wang. LLM-assisted labeling function generation for semantic type detection. Presented at the Data-driven AI Workshop, VLDB 2024, 2024. doi: 10.48550/arXiv. 2408.16173 3 [22] D. Li, H. Mei, Y. Shen, S. Su, W. Zhang, J. Wang et al. Echarts: a declarative framework for rapid construction of web-based visu-alization. Visual Informatics , 2(2):136–146, 2018. doi: 10.1016/j. visinf.2018.04.011 1, 2 [23] Z. Liu, C. Chen, and J. Hooker. Manipulable semantic components: a computational representation of data visualization scenes. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 31(1):732– 742, 2024. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2024.3456296 2 [24] Looker. https://developers.google.com/looker-studio/ connector/semantics?hl=zh-cn . Accessed: 2026-02-26. 3 [25] K. Lu, M. Feng, X. Chen, M. Sedlmair, O. Deussen, D. Lischin-ski et al. Palettailor: Discriminable colorization for categorical data. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics ,27(2):475–484, 2020. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2020.3030406 3 [26] J. Mackinlay. Automating the design of graphical presentations of relational information. Acm Transactions On Graphics (Tog) ,5(2):110–141, 1986. doi: 10.1145/22949.22950 3 [27] J. Mackinlay, P. Hanrahan, and C. Stolte. Show me: Automatic presentation for visual analysis. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics , 13(6):1137–1144, 2007. doi: 10.1109/ TVCG.2007.70594 3 [28] P. Maddigan and T. Susnjak. Chat2vis: Generating data visual-izations via natural language using chatgpt, codex and gpt-3 large language models. Ieee Access , 11:45181–45193, 2023. doi: 10. 1109/ACCESS.2023.3274199 3 [29] A. M. McNutt and R. Chugh. Integrated visualization editing via parameterized declarative templates. In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp. 1–14, 2021. doi: 10.1145/3411764.3445356 2 [30] D. Moritz, C. Wang, G. L. Nelson, H. Lin, A. M. Smith, B. Howe et al. Formalizing visualization design knowledge as constraints: Actionable and extensible models in draco. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 25(1):438–448, 2018. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2018.2865240 2, 3, 9 [31] J. Nam, J. Yoon, J. Chen, and T. Pfister. DS-STAR: data science agent via iterative planning and verification. CoRR ,abs/2509.21825, 2025. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2509.21825 9, 12 [32] J. Pollock and A. Satyanarayan. Gofish: a grammar of more graphics! IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 2025. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2025.3634250 9, 12 [33] S. Sah, R. Mitra, A. Narechania, A. Endert, J. Stasko, and W. Dou. Generating Analytic Specifications for Data Visualization from Natural Language Queries using Large Language Models. Pre-sented at the NLVIZ Workshop, IEEE VIS 2024, 2024. doi: 10. 48550/arXiv.2408.13391 3 [34] A. Satyanarayan, D. Moritz, K. Wongsuphasawat, and J. Heer. Vega-lite: A grammar of interactive graphics. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 23(1):341–350, 2016. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2016.2599030 1, 2, 7 [35] A. Satyanarayan, R. Russell, J. Hoffswell, and J. Heer. Reactive vega: A streaming dataflow architecture for declarative interac-tive visualization. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Com-puter Graphics , 22(1):659–668, 2015. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2015. 

10 2467091 2 [36] S. Schöttler, J. Dykes, J. Wood, U. Hinrichs, and B. Bach. Constraint-based breakpoints for responsive visualization design and development. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Com-puter Graphics , 2024. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2024.3410097 8 [37] H. Shi, Y. Wang, J. Chen, C. Wang, and B. Lee. PiCCL: Data-driven composition of bespoke pictorial charts. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 2025. doi: 10.1109/TVCG. 2025.3634264 9, 12 [38] L. S. Snyder and J. Heer. Divi: Dynamically interactive visualiza-tion. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics ,30(1):403–413, 2023. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2023.3327172 2 [39] L. S. Snyder, C. Wang, and S. M. Drucker. Challenges & oppor-tunities with LLM-assisted visualization retargeting. 2025 IEEE Visualization and Visual Analytics (VIS) , pp. 141–145, 2025. doi: 10.1109/VIS60296.2025.00034 2 [40] S. Tosi. Matplotlib for Python developers , vol. 307. Packt Publish-ing Birmingham, UK, 2009. 2 [41] P. Vaithilingam, E. L. Glassman, J. P. Inala, and C. Wang. Dy-navis: Dynamically synthesized ui widgets for visualization editing. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp. 1–17, 2024. doi: 10.1145/3613904. 3642639 1 [42] P. M. Valero-Mora. ggplot2: elegant graphics for data analysis. 

Journal of statistical software , 35:1–3, 2010. doi: doi/10.5555/ 1795559 2 [43] S. VanderPlas and H. Hofmann. Signs of the sine illusion—why we need to care. Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics ,24(4):1170–1190, 2015. doi: 10.1080/10618600.2014.951547 3 [44] C. Wang, B. Lee, S. M. Drucker, D. Marshall, and J. Gao. Data formulator 2: Iterative creation of data visualizations, with ai trans-forming data along the way. In Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp. 1–17, 2025. doi: 10.1145/3706598.3713296 1, 3 [45] Y. Wang, Z. Wang, C.-W. Fu, H. Schmauder, O. Deussen, and D. Weiskopf. Image-based aspect ratio selection. IEEE Trans-actions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 25(1):840–849, 2018. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2018.2865266 3, 8 [46] Y. Wang, Z. Wang, L. Zhu, J. Zhang, C.-W. Fu, Z. Cheng et al. Is there a robust technique for selecting aspect ratios in line charts? IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graph-ics , 24(12):3096–3110, 2017. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2017.2787113 3, 8 [47] L. Wilkinson. The Grammar of Graphics . Springer Science & Business Media, 2006. 1, 2 [48] K. Wongsuphasawat, D. Moritz, A. Anand, J. Mackinlay, B. Howe, and J. Heer. Towards a general-purpose query language for vi-sualization recommendation. In Proceedings of the workshop on human-in-the-loop data analytics , pp. 1–6, 2016. doi: 10.1145/ 2939502.293950 9 [49] J. Yang, P. F. Gyarmati, Z. Zeng, and D. Moritz. Draco 2: An extensible platform to model visualization design. In 2023 IEEE Visualization and Visual Analytics (VIS) , pp. 166–170. IEEE, 2023. doi: 10.1109/VIS54172.2023.00042 9 [50] D. Zhang, Y. Suhara, J. Li, M. Hulsebos, C. Demiralp, and W.-C. Tan. Sato: Contextual semantic type detection in tables. Proceed-ings of the VLDB Endowment , 13(11). doi: 10.14778/3407790. 3407793 3 

A SEMANTIC TYPE REGISTRY 

In Flint, we currently organize semantic types into 44 fine-grained L3 semantic types, grouped under 15 L2 families and 6 L1 domains. Our system maintains a semantic type registry that maps each semantic type to a set of abstract compilation properties that are chart- and encoding-agnostic, including pars-ing strategy, preferred encoding types, aggregation behavior, domain shape, zero-baseline semantics, and formatting defaults that influence chart configuration in later stages. We label each property according to the semantic level that primarily deter-mines it (L1–L3). Properties labeled L2/L3 indicate that the property is generally introduced at the family level but may be further refined by individual semantic types within that family. • Parsers (L1) : Whether the raw data should be tested and parsed with temporal, numerical, or string parsers and how to process missing, null and NaN values. • Encoding Candidates (L2/L3) : The set of semantically appro-priate encoding types for a field, such as quantitative , ordinal ,

nominal , or temporal . This property defines valid casts from semantic data types to visual encoding types and prevents in-valid assignments. For example, it allows a YearMonth field to be cast to an ordinal encoding when necessary (e.g., to fit on the y-axis of a pyramid chart), while prohibiting the direct use of a DateTime field as bar height. • Zero Baseline (L2) : Specifies whether zero should be treated as a meaningful baseline (e.g., Revenue), an arbitrary one (e.g., Year), a contextual one (e.g., Percentage), or none when the notion of zero is irrelevant. • Aggregation Role (L2): Specifies whether a field should func-tion as a grouping variable, a record-level key, or an aggrega-tion target, and if aggregated, which aggregation behaviors are semantically valid. We classify fields as additive (e.g., Revenue, Count), intensive (e.g., Percentage, Price), signed-additive (e.g., Profit), dimension for grouping fields such as Country, Status, and Month, or identifier for record-level keys such as OrderID and CustomerID. • Diverging Class (L2/L3) : Whether a field semantically implies diverging treatment in visual encodings, such as diverging color scales or centered positional mappings, categorized as 

inherent , conditional , or none .• Domain Shape (L2/L3) : Whether the scale implied by the data is open , bounded , fixed , or cyclic , which in turn affects axis construction, tick generation, and domain padding. • Display Formatter (L3) : Specifies how a field should be ren-dered in axis ticks and tooltips. In many cases, the preferred behavior is to preserve the raw representation when it is al-ready readable; otherwise, the semantic type provides a more suitable formatter. For example, a YearMonth field may pre-fer a formatter such as %Y-%m if it is stored as timestamps, whereas a simple textual Month field may remain unchanged. This property allows the compiler to improve readability while preserving intended semantics. 

B SEMANTIC TYPE ERROR RESOLUTION 

In practice, semantic types are usually easy for both humans and AI agents to specify correctly, since they align with column names, value patterns, and common data semantics. When occa-sional mistakes occur, they are more often small “near-misses”: for example, labeling a revenue field as Count , a month field as 

Category , or a temperature field as Quantity . Flint handles such cases gracefully, since its compiler frontend checks whether the declared semantic type is consistent with the field’s raw data 11 representation Section 5. When the annotation is imprecise, it backs off along the type hierarchy to the most specific com-patible ancestor, preserving as much semantic information as possible for downstream chart construction and optimization. If no compatible type can be found, the compiler ultimately falls back to the most generic type Value , relying primarily on the field’s physical data type to perform best-effort inference and preserve chart quality. Figure 8 shows a heatmap example in which day-of-week and hour-of-day are annotated as generic Cat-egory rather than the more precise Day and Hour . Despite these imprecise annotations, the compiler still produces a correct and well-laid-out chart, but it loses some type-specific optimizations, such as treating the hour axis as a continuous temporal-like axis for better labeling. 

Figure 8: Day-of-week and hour-of-day are labeled as generic Category instead of the more precise Day and Hour. 

C GALLERY 

We present a gallery of visualization examples that demonstrate both the expressive power and the cross-backend portability of our proposed Flint language. So far, the gallery covers the fol-lowing charts across backends; many of them are not natively supported by the libraries, and we implement them with dynamic templates. These charts automatically adapt to different data cardinalities and types thanks to Flint’s semantic type-based optimization passes during the compilation process. Figure 9– Figure 11 show example charts rendered in Vega-Lite, ECharts, and Chart.js. All visualizations are generated from the high-level Flint specifications, and the compiler determines the backend-specific low-level configurations based on semantic data types. • Vega-Lite: Scatter Plot, Linear Regression, Boxplot, Strip Plot, Bar Chart, Grouped Bar, Stacked Bar, Histogram, Lollipop, Pyramid, Line Chart, Dotted Line, Bump Chart, Area Chart, Streamgraph, Pie Chart, Rose Chart, Heatmap, Waterfall Chart, Density Plot, Ranged Dot Plot, Radar Chart, Candlestick Chart, US Map, and World Map. • ECharts: Scatter Plot, Boxplot, Bar Chart, Grouped Bar, Stacked Bar, Histogram, Heatmap, Line Chart, Area Chart, Streamgraph, Pie Chart, Candlestick Chart, Radar Chart, and Rose Chart. • Chart.js: Scatter Plot, Bar Chart, Grouped Bar, Stacked Bar, Histogram, Line Chart, Area Chart, Pie Chart, Radar Chart, and Rose Chart. 

Extension Experiment. To illustrate the extensibility of our ap-proach beyond traditional web-based libraries, Figure 12 presents additional examples rendered via Gofish [32] and PiCCL [37]. Because PiCCL is an infographics-oriented library, our extension currently relies on a fixed set of media assets and composition methods (overlay, replacement, fill) for each template. In future work, it would be worth exploring how data semantics could automatically guide the recommendation and generation of com-position materials based on chart intent. 

D LLM EVALUATION SETUP DETAILS 

In this section, we present details of our agent and study design. We use the TidyTuesday 2025 datasets 3, which include 63 tables spanning 51 real-world topics, with substantially larger scale (median 952 rows, 49% exceeding 1000 rows, and median 8 columns). As this corpus lacks annotated queries, we employ an LLM agent to generate fine-grained exploration questions [31], which serve as input prompts for visualization agents, enabling controlled diversity in both questions and chart types. Overall, our evaluation leverages the following LLM agents: • Question generation agent : given an input dataset, generates diverse visualization-oriented data analysis questions. In par-ticular, we breakdown the score for each chart into three cate-gories. • Chart agents : given the dataset and a question as inputs, gen-erate a visualization. We use the Flint agent introduced earlier, with Vega-Lite as the backend library. We further compare it with a DirectVL agent, which is instructed to generate a custom Vega-Lite specification that can answer the question. • Grader agent : given a generated chart specification, the cor-responding question, and the input data, the grader assesses whether the output is correct, interpretable, and appropriate for the task based on the rendered image from the visualization. Here, we use gpt-5.1 for question generation and grading, and we ablate chart agents with both gpt-5.1 and gpt-4.1 to compare the models’ effect on chart generation quality. 

D.1 Question generation agent 

The question-generation agent lets us systematically construct a diverse set of visualization tasks for evaluation. The prompt encourages coverage of trends, comparisons, distributions, rela-tionships, rankings, compositions, correlations, geographic pat-terns, and forecasting, and it asks the agent to include a suitable chart-type hint for each question from a fixed set of supported visualizations. 

> You are a data analyst who generates questions about datasets for visualization and analysis. ,→
> Given a dataset summary, generate a list of questions that ask for visualizations to show trends/insights about the data. ,→
> Note that each question should be suitable for a single layered chart. Generate questions of varying styles: 1. **Ambiguous/High-level**: Open-ended questions that allow for interpretation (e.g., "What are the key trends in this data?") ,→
> 2. **Concrete/Low-level**: Specific questions about particular aspects (e.g., "How does sales vary by region?") ,→
> 3. **Chart-specific**: Questions that directly request a specific chart type (e.g., "Show me a bar chart of revenue by category"). ,→
> Do not ask for multi-layered or annotated charts. Chart types can be selected from "Scatter Plot", "Bar Chart", "Line Chart", "Area Chart", "Histogram", "Heatmap", "Group Bar Chart", "Boxplot".
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> Output a JSON array of questions with the following format:
> ``` json [{"question": "...", "style": "ambiguous" | "concrete" | "chart_specific", "complexity": "low" | "medium" | "high", }, ... ]
> ```
> 3https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday

12 Figure 9: A gallery of standard visualization examples rendered using the Vega-Lite backend. 

13 Figure 10: A selection of diverse chart types rendered using the ECharts backend. 

14 Figure 11: Chart.js renderings for common visualizations generated from Flint specifications. 

Figure 12: Extension experiments with Gofish (top) and PiCCL (bottom). 

15 Within the number of questions requested by the user, generate a diverse set of questions that cover different aspects of the data. ,→

D.2 Chart agent (Flint) 

This section presents the prompt used for the Flint chart agent. Although Flint is a new intermediate language, its simple syn-tax makes it easy for LLM agents to use. A prompt sketch is shown below. Here, we specifically instruct the agent to follow the semantic hierarchy so it can generate dataSpec based on data context information. Once dataSpec is generated, it can be reused by the user when adapting the chart. This improves to-ken efficiency, reduces latency, and makes iterative visualization workflows faster and more stable. 

[SYSTEM] - Semantic type hierarchy guidance for fields - Visualization design space: chart type | available channels | chart-specific properties - guidance for SQL/Python preprocessing scripts - guidance for choosing chart types [OUTPUT FORMAT] - Output schema guidance for dataSpec and chartSpec - A python script that transforms the data if needed [CONTEXT] - Input tables, columns, file paths - Field summaries - Sample rows [QUESTION] - User 's natural-language request or partial specification 

You are a data scientist who recommends data and visualizations. Given [CONTEXT] (dataset summaries) and [GOAL] (user intent), recommend a transformed dataset and visualization, then write a Python script to produce it. 

> ,→
> ,→

**[SEMANTIC TYPE REFERENCE]** Choose the most specific type that fits. Only annotate fields used in chart encodings. ,→

| Category | Types | |---|---| | Temporal | DateTime, Date, Time, Timestamp, Year, Quarter, Month, Week, Day, Hour, YearMonth, YearQuarter, YearWeek, Decade, Duration | 

> ,→
> ,→

| Monetary measures | Amount, Price | | Physical measures | Quantity, Temperature | | Proportion | Percentage | | Signed/diverging | Profit, PercentageChange, Sentiment, Correlation |,→

| Generic measures | Count, Number | | Discrete numeric | Rank, Score | | Identifier | ID | | Geographic | Latitude, Longitude, Country, State, City, Region, Address, ZipCode | ,→

| Entity names | Category, Name | | Coded categorical | Status, Boolean, Direction | | Binned ranges | Range | | Fallback | Unknown | **[FIELD METADATA REFERENCE]** For each field used in chart encodings, provide: - "semantic_type": one type from [SEMANTIC TYPE REFERENCE] - "intrinsic_domain": [min, max] when the field has a known bounded scale ,→

- Infer from data values and context: e.g., if a "rating" column has values 1-10, the domain is [1, 10]; if it is clearly a 5-star system, use [1, 5]. 

> ,→
> ,→

- For Percentage: [0, 100] if values are whole-number percentages, [0, 1] if fractional. ,→

- For Correlation: always [-1, 1]. - Do NOT provide for open-ended measures like Amount, Count, Quantity, Temperature, etc. ,→

- Only provide when the scale bounds are clear from the data or domain knowledge. ,→

- "mid": a meaningful midpoint or neutral reference value - Use for signed/diverging fields when relevant. - Examples: 0 for Profit, PercentageChange, Sentiment, Correlation; 32 for Fahrenheit temperature only when the freezing point is semantically meaningful to the task. 

> ,→
> ,→

- Do NOT provide unless there is a clear semantic midpoint. - "unit": a short unit string for physical/monetary quantities - "sort_order": the natural order for ordinal string fields - Provide only if the field is string type and ordinal. - Examples: month names, weekdays, ranked categories, ranges, education levels. ,→

- Do NOT provide when alphabetical order is already correct or there is no inherent order. ,→

- Examples where sort_order is usually unnecessary: Name, State, City. ,→

Examples: - Use **Amount** for summed monetary totals, **Price** for per-unit prices, **Profit** for values that can be negative. ,→

- Use **Temperature** (not Quantity) for temperature. - Use **Year** (not Number) for columns like "year" with values 2020, 2021. ,→

**[CHART TYPE REFERENCE]** | chart_type | encodings | config | |---|---|---| | Scatter Plot | x, y, color, size, facet | opacity (0.1–1.0) | | Regression | x, y, color, size, facet | regressionMethod ("linear","log","exp","pow","quad","poly"), polyOrder (2–10) | ,→

| Bar Chart | x, y, color, facet | — | | Grouped Bar Chart | x, y, group, facet | — | | Line Chart | x, y, color, strokeDash, facet | interpolate ("linear","monotone","step") | ,→

| Area Chart | x, y, color, facet | — | | Heatmap | x, y, color, facet | colorScheme ("viridis","blues","red ⌋

s","oranges","greens","blueorange","redblue") | ,→

| Boxplot | x, y, color, facet | — | | Pie Chart | size, color, facet | innerRadius (0–100; 0=pie, >0=donut) | ,→

| Lollipop Chart | x, y, color, facet | — | | Waterfall Chart | x, y, color, facet | — | | Candlestick Chart | x, open, high, low, close, facet | — | | World Map | longitude, latitude, color, size | projection ("mercator","equalEarth","naturalEarth1","orthographic"), projectionCenter ([lon,lat]) | 

> ,→
> ,→

| US Map | longitude, latitude, color, size | — (fixed albersUsa) | **Critical chart rules:** - **facet**: available for all chart types; use a categorical field with small cardinality. ,→

- All fields in "encodings" must also appear in "output_fields". Typically use 2–3 channels (x, y, color/size). ,→

You will produce two outputs: a JSON spec ( ``` json ``` ) and a Python script ( ``` python ``` ). No extra text. ,→

**Step 1: JSON spec** — infer user intent and recommend a visualization. ,→

``` json {"display_instruction": "", // short verb phrase (<12 words) capturing computation intent. Bold **column names** (semantic matches count). For follow-ups, describe only the new part. 

> ,→
> ,→

"input_tables": [...], // table names from [CONTEXT] to use. Table 1 is the currently viewed table — prioritize it. ,→

"output_fields": [...], // desired output fields (include intermediate fields) ,→

"chart": { 

16 "chart_type": "", // from [CHART TYPE REFERENCE] "encodings": {}, // visual channels -> output field names "config": {} // optional styling }, "field_metadata": { // metadata for each encoding field only "<field>": { "semantic_type": "Category", "intrinsic_domain": [0, 100], // optional "mid": 0, // optional "unit": "%", // optional "sort_order": [...] // optional }}, "output_variable": "" // descriptive snake_case name (e.g. "sales_by_region"), not "result_df" ,→

}

``` 

**field_metadata rules:** - Include one entry for every field used in chart encodings. - "semantic_type" is required. - "intrinsic_domain", "mid", "unit", and "sort_order" are optional and should be included only when clearly justified. ,→

- Do not fabricate units, domains, or ordered categories if they are not supported by the data or context. ,→

**Data format rules:** - Output must be tidy (one field per visual channel, like VegaLite/ggplot2). ,→

- For multiple similar columns: reshape to long format (only same semantic type in one column). ,→

- For derived metrics: compute new fields (correlation, difference, profit, etc.). ,→

- Keep encodings to 2–3 channels (x, y, color/size). Add facet only when needed. ,→

**Step 2: Python script** — transform input data to produce a DataFrame with all "output_fields". Keep it simple and readable. The script MUST assign the final result to the variable named in "output_variable" from Step 1. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

D.3 Chart agent (Vega-Lite) 

This section provides the prompt we use for the Vega-Lite vi-sualization agent used in our experiment. Here, the agent is instructed to directly generate a Vega-Lite spec for visualization. We instructed the agent not to generate custom annotations to avoid diverting the grader’s attention to annotations that could interfere with the comparison. 

You are a data scientist helping users create visualizations. The user will provide you information about what visualization they would like to create, and your job is to: ,→

1. Transform the data using a standalone Python script 2. Generate VegaLite visualization code directly The recommendation and transformation should be based on the [CONTEXT] and [GOAL] provided by the user. ,→

The [CONTEXT] shows what the current dataset is, and the [GOAL] describes what visualization the user wants. ,→

Your output should consist of three parts: 1. A JSON object with metadata about the visualization: 

``` json {"recap": "...", "display_instruction": "...", "recommendation": "...", "output_fields": [...], "output_variable": "..." }

``` 

- "output_variable": descriptive snake_case name (e.g. "sales_by_region"), not "result_df" ,→

2. A standalone Python script that reads data from files and produces a DataFrame: ,→

``` python import pandas as pd import numpy as np # Read data from workspace files (use exact filenames from [CONTEXT]) df = pd.read_parquet( 'table_name.parquet ')# Transform as needed # ... # Assign result to the variable named in "output_variable" output_variable_name = transformed_df 

``` 

Note: - The script is standalone (no function wrapper needed) - Read data directly from files using the paths shown in [CONTEXT] - The final result DataFrame MUST be assigned to the variable named in "output_variable" from the JSON spec ,→

- datetime handling: convert years to numbers, year-month/year-month-day to strings ,→

- Never return datetime objects directly 3. VegaLite visualization code in JSON format: 

``` json {"$schema": "https://vega.github.io/schema/vega-lite/v5.json", "data": {"name": "data"}, "mark": "...", "encoding": { "x": {"field": "...", "type": "..."}, "y": {"field": "...", "type": "..."}, ... }, ... }

``` 

Important notes for VegaLite code: - Always use `"data": {"name": "data"} ` - the transformed dataframe will be provided with this name ,→

- Field types should be one of: "quantitative", "nominal", "ordinal", "temporal" ,→

- You can use any VegaLite mark type: circle, bar, line, area, rect, point, etc. ,→

- You may use "layer" when a chart type requires multiple marks (e.g., lollipop = rule + circle). Do NOT use layers for annotations, text overlays, or combining separate charts. 

> ,→
> ,→

- Do NOT add a chart "title", "subtitle", or "description" property - Do NOT add tooltip encoding or config.mark.tooltip - Do NOT add custom axis titles or legend titles — let VegaLite use field names as defaults ,→

- Do NOT use "transform" in VegaLite — all data transformations must be done in Python ,→

- Do NOT add annotations, text marks, or selection/interaction parameters ,→

- Keep styling minimal: only specify mark, encoding, width, and height The output must contain: 1. One JSON object with metadata 2. One Python code block (standalone script) 3. One JSON code block with VegaLite spec Do not add any extra text explanation outside these three blocks. 

D.4 Grading agent 

The grading agent uses a checklist-based evaluation protocol to assess each agent response. It is implemented as a vision-language model that receives the rendered chart image and judges the quality of the visualization directly. The four evaluation dimensions capture whether the chart answers the user’s question, whether it contains errors, and how clear and well-designed it is. 17 You are an expert evaluator for data visualization and analysis tasks. You will be given: 1. **Data Summary**: Information about the input dataset 2. **Task Description**: What the user asked for 3. **Chart Image**: The generated visualization 4. **Chart Caption**: A short text explaining what the chart shows 5. **Rubric**: Evaluation criteria with scoring guidelines Evaluate the chart based on the rubric and provide: 1. A score for each rubric criterion 2. Brief justification for each score 3. An overall score Output your evaluation as JSON: 

``` json {"criteria_scores": { "<criterion_name>": { "score": <number>, "max_score": <number>, "justification": "<brief explanation>" }, ... }, "overall_score": <number>, "overall_max_score": <number>, "summary": "<brief overall assessment>" }Evaluation Criteria (each scored 0-5): 1. **Relevance** (0-5): Does the visualization address the task/question? ,→

- 5: Perfectly addresses the task - 3: Partially addresses the task - 0: Does not address the task at all 2. **Chart Errors** (0-5): Are there any errors in the chart? E.g., skewed axis, missing data, unreadable content, etc. ,→

- 5: No errors in the chart - 3: Minor errors in the chart - 0: Major errors in the chart 3. **Clarity** (0-5): Is the visualization clear and easy to understand? ,→

- 5: Very clear representation of the data that is easy to understand. ,→

- 3: Somewhat clear but could be improved (e.g., requires some efforts to read the patterns and details to answer the question) 

> ,→
> ,→

- 0: Confusing, poorly labeled, or misleading, difficult to understand the data or the trend. ,→

4. **Design Quality** (0-5): Is the visualization well-designed and visually effective? ,→

- 5: Excellent use of colors, scales, and visual encoding, clear and effective. ,→

- 3: Acceptable design with some suboptimal choices, could be improved. ,→

- 0: Poor design choices that hinder understanding. 

``` 

E LLM E VALUATION RESULTS 

Scores. We summarize the quantitative evaluation results of Flint and DirectVL in the following tables. They report over-all performance across models, per-criterion breakdowns, and finer-grained analyses by chart type, providing a compact view of the evaluation from aggregate results to detailed category-level performance. Table 4–Table 5 summarize the quantitative evaluation of Flint and DirectVL. Together, they present overall results across models, per-criterion breakdowns, and chart-type-specific analyses. These evaluation scores are used for pairwise comparison in our evaluation. 

LLM-generated examples and charts. We next show exam-ple questions, responses, and grading results for LLM charts generated in this experiment. 

Example 1 (Flint is better). In this example, the agent is asked to generate a scatter plot for the apisguru_apis dataset. The resulting charts are shown in Figure 13. Here, the grader recognizes that the visualization generated by the DirectVL agent has x-axis rendering issues causing skewed charts, though it is gentle in discounting its score since the encoding is right. The chart from Flint received a full score. 

dataset: apisguru_apis question: Use a scatter plot to show the relationship between the year an API spec was first added and the total number of days until it was last updated (difference between updated and added), with each point representing one row. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

scores: flint: 20 directvl: 16 grader_reasoning: flint: "A clear, accurate, and well-designed scatter plot that fully satisfies the specified task." ,→

directvl: "The scatter plot correctly addresses the task and is error-free, but the wide x-axis range compresses the data and limits clarity and visual effectiveness." 

> ,→
> ,→

DirectVL 

Flint 

Figure 13: Example 1 on apisguru_apis . Top: DirectVL. Bottom: Flint. 

18 Table 4: Breakdown by grading criterion for each agent-model pair (mean scores; Overall is out of 20, other criteria are out of 5). 

Model Agent Overall Relevance Chart Errors Clarity Design Quality gpt-5.1 Flint 16.27 ± 3.37 4.60 4.11 3.87 3.68 

DirectVL 15.91 ± 3.53 4.45 4.04 3.80 3.55 gpt-5-mini Flint 16.16 ± 3.56 4.51 4.06 3.91 3.68 

DirectVL 15.60 ± 3.42 4.39 3.90 3.74 3.58 gpt-4.1 Flint 15.91 ± 3.46 4.43 4.12 3.79 3.57 

DirectVL 15.34 ± 3.87 4.26 3.90 3.67 3.48 

Table 5: Chart-type breakdown of overall GPT-5.1 scores (mean over questions, out of 20). 

Chart Type n Flint DirectVL Area Chart 3 18.67 17.00 Bar Chart 59 15.68 15.69 

Boxplot 43 15.93 16.74 

Grouped Bar Chart 46 16.37 15.74 Heatmap 22 16.41 15.59 Line Chart 45 16.69 15.75 Lollipop Chart 49 16.06 15.28 Pie Chart 8 14.62 14.75 

Scatter Plot 36 17.67 17.36 US Map 1 17.00 14.00 World Map 3 12.00 10.67 

Example 2 (Flint is better). In this example, the agent is asked to generate a stacked area chart for the bl_funding dataset. The resulting charts are shown in Figure 14. The DirectVL agent in fact parsed the data incorrectly and thus received a lower score. 

dataset: bl_funding question: Use a stacked area chart to show the composition of year_2000-adjusted income (gia_y2000_gbp_millions, voluntary_y2000_gbp_millions, investment_y2000_gbp_millions, services_y2000_gbp_millions, other_y2000_gbp_millions) over time by year. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

scores: flint: 20 directvl: 17 grader_reasoning: flint: "Well-executed stacked area chart that correctly and clearly shows the composition of year_2000-adjusted income by source over time, with no detectable errors and strong visual design." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

directvl: "A relevant and generally well-executed stacked area chart that correctly shows the composition of year-2000-adjusted income over time, with minor issues in x-axis labeling and layout affecting clarity and design." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Example 3 (Flint is worse). In this example, the agent is asked to generate a lollipop chart for the api_categories dataset. The resulting charts are shown in Figure 15. Flint received a slightly lower score because the horizontal lollipop generated by the DirectVL agent had a better layout. 

dataset: api_categories question: Use a lollipop chart to rank apisguru_category values by their API counts and highlight the top 10 most common categories. 

> ,→
> ,→

scores: flint: 18 directvl: 19 grader_reasoning: flint: "Accurate and effective lollipop chart that fulfills the task by clearly presenting the top 10 API categories by count, with minor opportunities to improve label readability and visual emphasis." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

directvl: "A clear and accurate lollipop chart that correctly ranks and displays the top 10 API categories by count, with solid design and no visible errors." 

> ,→
> ,→

Example 4 (Flint is worse). In this example, the agent is asked to generate a line chart for the cranes dataset. The resulting charts are shown in Figure 16. This is a quite interesting example, Flint decides that it’s two line series and decides to connect two disruption points, which in fact should not be connected, thus received lower scores. 

dataset: cranes question: Plot a line chart of daily crane observations over time, coloring points by whether there was a weather disruption, to see long-term trends and how disruptions align with peaks and troughs. 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

scores: flint: 11 

19 DirectVL 

Flint 

Figure 14: Example 2 on bl_funding . Top: DirectVL. Bottom: Flint. 

directvl: 18 grader_reasoning: flint: "The chart generally encodes the right variables and shows long-term trends, but likely uses the wrong or additional data, relies on continuous lines for a boolean condition, and is not optimized for clearly seeing how weather disruptions align with peaks and troughs." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

directvl: "A relevant and technically sound visualization that effectively shows long-term crane observation trends and highlights weather disruptions, though the dense plotting and continuous lines make it somewhat busy." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

Example 5 (Grader mistake). Figure 17 shows a case where the grader appears to misjudge the outputs, assigning Flint a score of 10 versus 13 for DirectVL. The underlying dataset is skewed for this question, which seems to have led the grader to penalize both charts. However, Flint actually produces the faithful grouped bar chart requested in the prompt, whereas Di-rectVL produces an incorrect faceted stacked bar chart instead. Although the grader can be imprecise in individual cases like this, the aggregate comparison over 315 runs still provides a useful signal for understanding overall agent behavior. 

dataset: user2025 question: Create a grouped bar chart comparing the number of sessions with and without video recordings (video_recording) for each room (room). 

> ,→
> ,→

scores: 

DirectVL 

Flint 

Figure 15: Example 3 on api_categories . Top: DirectVL. Bottom: Flint. 

flint: 10 directvl: 13 grader_reasoning: flint: "The chart captures the correct variables but fails to produce a true grouped bar chart: bars for recording status overlap per room, obscuring data and limiting comparability. With side-by-side grouping and clearer labels, it would more effectively fulfill the task." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

directvl: "The visualization encodes the correct counts of sessions with and without video recordings by room, but the choice to facet by room while also using room on the x-axis results in redundancy and reduced clarity. A single grouped bar chart with rooms along one axis would better satisfy the task and improve readability and design." 

> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→
> ,→

20 DirectVL 

Flint 

Figure 16: Example 4 on cranes . Top: DirectVL. Bottom: Flint. 

DirectVL 

Flint 

Figure 17: Example 5 on user2025 . Top: DirectVL. Bottom: Flint. 

21